Most likely yes.
As for the distortions, misinformation posted by Zionists here about our Palestinian Christian brothers and sisters, most left due to Zionist colonialism, ethnic cleansing, oppression, and control over our economy. What Zionists support and stand for is the reason!
I can speak about my people better than Zionists who want us to be erased from the face of the earth and even deny our existence. Read my thorough answer below for further information.
MUST READ: Are Palestinian Christians leaving due to Palestinian Muslims?

Declining Palestinian Christian Population Fears Its Churches Are Turning Into Museums.
Palestinian Christians Ongoing forcible displacement and dispossession... until when?





-From Palestine with 💚
Must watch and read:
Palestinian Christians under Israeli occupation speak out.

Are There Still Christians In Palestine?

A Zionist walks in the Palestinian city of Ramallah trying to get Palestinian Christians to say they left because of Hamas, their replies disappointed him a lot.

Same Zionist walking in the Palestinian city of Ramallah again talking to Palestinian Christians. It’s ironic that Israelis can walk in Palestinian areas and not get lynched as Zionists claim, yet Palestinians are prevented from going back to their original homes and properties, let alone visit.

Israel continues to unjustly control Christians in Palestine and pilgrimages around Holy Land sites.

Palestinian Christians and Muslims in Jerusalem describe life under Israeli occupation.

Palestinian Orthodox Christians and Muslims in the Occupied West Bank have joined a march to remember those who were killed by Israeli forces in Gaza.

Palestinian Orthodox Christians in Gaza are celebrating Christmas, as the territory enters its tenth year under an Israeli-led blockade.

Palestinian Christians in Gaza suffer from Israeli blockade.

Hamas delegation visits Latin Catholic Church in Gaza.

Hamas on Palestinian christians.
Israelis forces attacking Palestinian Christians on “Holy Saturday” 2021.

Hamas sends warmest wishes on Easter
Israeli settlers attack Palestinian Armenian priests.

Israeli settlers view on Jesus Christ.

Zionist asks Israelis: Who is Jesus to you?

Zionist asks Palestinian Muslims : Who is Jesus to you?

Israelis burn and vandalise Palestinian churches:



Israel imprisons Palestinian Christians:






 you can check the url/as-seen-from-how-the-world-is-closing-in-on-Israel-oppression-on-Palestinians-is-Israel-s-end-near-like-South-African-apartheid/answer/Handala-2