This has been already well established.
1- "The Missing Link of Jewish European Ancestry: Contrasting the Rhineland and the Khazarian Hypotheses" by Dr. Eran Elhaik/ John Hopkins University. Elhaik argues that the European Jewish genome is a mosaic of Caucasus, European, and Semitic ancestries, setting to rest previous contradictory reports of Jewish ancestry. Elhaik's findings strongly support the Khazarian Hypothesis as opposed to the Rhineland Hypothesis of European Jewish origins. It has also been found that their DNA only has 3% ancient ancestry which links them with the Middle East, including Palestine, Lebanon, parts of Syria, and western Jordan. This is the part of the world Jewish people are said to have originally come from – according to the Old Testament. But 3% is a minuscule amount, and similar to what modern Europeans as a whole share with Neanderthals. So given that the genetic ancestry link is so low, Ashkenazic Jews’ most recent ancestors must be from elsewhere. Missing Link of Jewish European Ancestry: Contrasting the Rhineland and the Khazarian Hypotheses New study sheds light on the origin of the European Jewish population Redirect Notice
2- "A substantial prehistoric European ancestry amongst Ashkenazi maternal lineages"by Dr.Martin B. Richards of the University of Huddersfield in the UK : The European Jews primarily descend from European converts (on the maternal side) which he traces to Roman Empire era conversions in Southern Europe (specifically Italy). Other based researchers: like Dr. Avshalom Zoossmann Diskin, Steven M. Bray et al. 2010, and even Harry Ostrer have argued similar reasoning. Genetic Roots of the Ashkenazi Jews Surprise: Ashkenazi Jews Are Genetically European
3- Signatures of founder effects, admixture, and selection in the Ashkenazi Jewish population by Steven M Bray (Department of Human Genetics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, USA.): Our analysis indeed revealed higher European admixture than predicted from previous Y-chromosome analyses. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/46009572_Signatures_of_founder_effects_admixture_and_selection_in_the_Ashkenazi_Jewish_population
4- "The origin of Eastern European Jews revealed by autosomal, sex chromosomal and mtDNA polymorphisms" by Dr. Avshalom Zoossmann-Diskin. According to the autosomal polymorphisms the investigated Jewish populations do not share a common origin, and EEJ (Easter European Jews) are closer to Italians in particular and to Europeans in general than to the other Jewish populations. The close genetic resemblance to Italians accords with the historical presumption that Ashkenazi Jews started their migrations across Europe in Italy and with historical evidence that conversion to Judaism was common in ancient Rome.






 you can check the url/Do-European-Jews-Ashkenazi-Sephardic-have-mostly-European-DNA/answer/Handala-2