The BDS movement aims to end international complicity in the Israeli regime of occupation, apartheid and settler colonialism.
Many companies such as Orange, Veolia and CRH have pulled out of Israel as a result of BDS campaigns.
As Israeli corporations, institutions and organizations become isolated or suffer economic setbacks due to international BDS campaigns, Israel, including business and society, will find it more difficult to maintain its oppression of Palestinians.
Each BDS success generates media attention and shines a light on the just Palestinian struggle for rights. The BDS movement is leading a tidal change in perceptions and approaches to Israel’s regime of oppression.
The growth and success of the BDS movement send a clear message of hope and inspiration to Palestinians and others that public opinion is increasingly supportive of the Palestinian people. The Israeli government now recognizes the potential of the BDS movement as a “strategic threat” to its system of injustice.
What has the BDS achieved so far?
Thanks to the strategic campaigning of people and organisations all over the world, the global BDS movement is having a real impact. For example:​
BDS was a major factor behind the 46% drop in foreign direct investment in Israel in 2014, according to a UN report.A Rand Corporation study predicts BDS could reduce Israel’s GDP “by 1 to 2 percent” annually over the next 10 years, while a World Bank report reveals that Israel’s exports to the Palestinian economy have dropped by 24% in the first quarter of 2015.
French multinational Veolia has completely withdrawn from Israel after a BDS campaign over its role in Israel’s colonisation of Palestinian land cost it billions of dollars in lost contracts.
Top Israeli weapons manufacturers complain of a plummeting exports “crisis,” partly due to “less desire for Israeli-made products.”
Major international companies including Orange, G4S and Unilever have announced steps to end their participation in Israel’s crimes.
Thousands of artists including Roger Waters from Pink Floyd, Faithless, Lauryn Hill, Brian Eno and Elvis Costello have refused to play in Israel.
Academic associations and student unions, most notably in the US, Canada, South Africa and the UK, now support BDS. A number of churches have divested from companies involved in Israel’s occupation.
Israel regards BDS as a “strategic threat” to its ongoing oppression of Palestinians. Some Israelis are calling for modest changes to Israeli policy.
Source: FAQs BDS





 you can check the url/Does-BDS-campaign-have-any-impact-on-peace-in-Israel-Palestine/answer/Handala-2