No, they don't.
During the Israeli war on one of the most densely populated places on earth and with no escape or exit : Gaza, Western media propagated Israeli propaganda that the Palestinian armed groups have been using their own family members as human shields. Sadly, Israeli propaganda is often presented in Western media as facts, and the Israeli version has been accepted with little verification. The goal is simple: dehumanize the Palestinians by showing that they don’t not care about their family members, and once that is done , it becomes much easier to accept them as legitimate targets. This dehumanizing campaign is as old as the Zionist movement; it was articulated by Golda Meir (a former Israeli Prime Minister) when she said:
”Peace will come when the Arabs will love their children more than they hate us.”
This racist and derogatory comment is often propagated in Western media without a second thought to its dehumanizing consequences. It paints the Arab as a sub-human creature, who has neither affection nor love towards his or her child.
Ironically, Israel Occupation Forces (IOF) still refuses to comply with orders from the Israeli Supreme Court to stop using Palestinian civilians as human shields (BBC article: IDF to appeal human shield ban). If the IOF is a "professional army" as it claims and it treats Palestinians according to International Law, then:
Why Israel's highest court would issue such an order?
Why Israeli soldiers refuse to stop using Palestinians as human shields?
Israel-Gaza: IDF used Palestinians as human shields 1,200 occasions in last five years, say Israeli defence officials

Minor examples of the the use of Palestinian human shields by the Israeli army:




Israeli Army continues to use Palestinian civilians as human shields By Josef Federman,” associated press writer: The young Palestinian man was dressed in shorts and a T-shirt on a cold winter morning as he walked in front of heavily armed Israeli soldiers on a door-to door sweep of three apartments in a crowded West Bank neighborhood. The scene caught by an Associated Press Television News camera has raised questions about whether the Israeli army is still using Palestinian civilians during military operations, despite a Supreme Court order barring the practice. Human rights groups call the tactic a violation of local and international law that places innocent civilians in the line of fire. In its initial reaction to the footage, the Israel Defense Forces said there appeared to be no wrongdoing by its soldiers. In a statement, however, the army pledged it would "pursue a thorough inquiry" into the case. The incident occurred Sunday in Nablus, where the army has been conducting broad arrest raids throughout the week.
In the AP video, the young Palestinian man is seen leading soldiers to the door of a home. He stands outside as troops move in, then leads the soldiers up some stairs to the apartment's main entrance. The man enters the home ahead of the soldiers. Gunshots are heard as several soldiers stand guard outside. The man then leaves the home, walks down the stairs and escorts the soldiers around the side of the building, where he said he led soldiers into two more apartments out of view of the cameras. Later, he is seen on the footage being led down stairs with several suspects. He and the other men are all placed into a military vehicle. In interviews with the AP, the Palestinian man, Sameh Amira, 24, said he was awakened at about 5 a.m. by soldiers and ordered to go with his family to a neighboring home. About an hour later, he said he was forced to lead troops into three apartments, including his own. He said he was not allowed to put on warmer clothes. "They asked me to walk in front of them against my will," he said, adding that he was occasionally prodded along at gunpoint. Inside his home, he said soldiers opened fire at bedroom closets. "All the time, I was scared, terrified. Anything could happen," he told the AP, pointing to bullet holes in the floor, closet doors and clothing in the closets.
Amira, who said he was released from army custody after several hours, said he is not a member of any Palestinian armed group, though he said he has a cousin who belongs to the Al Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades, which has carried out numerous attacks on Israelis. He also said he was jailed by Israel for more than three months, but never charged with a crime. His cousin, the apparent target of the raid, is in hiding, he said. International law, including the Geneva Conventions and Hague regulations, prohibit placing civilians in harm's way during military operations.
Video: Israeli's use of Palestinian human shields
In its 2005 ruling, the Israeli Supreme Court barred the use of civilians in arrest operations, even if they volunteer to help. The court specifically banned using neighbors to knock on doors of houses with suspected militants. The ruling rejected the army's assertion that the tactic of having civilians knock on their neighbors' doors and warn them of an impending raid actually protected civilians by encouraging them to leave their homes. The army also contended the practice spurred militants to surrender peacefully.
Israeli military practices became an issue in the spring of 2002, when the army carried out a major offensive in the West m Bank in response to suicide bombings by Palestinian militants. During arrest raids, soldiers would sometimes force Palestinian civilians to approach the homes and hideouts of wanted people.
In August 2002, a 19-year-old Palestinian student, Nidal Daraghmeh, was killed in such an incident in the West Bank town of Tubas. At the time, troops called Daraghmeh out of his house and forced him to knock at the door of a neighboring building where a senior Hamas fugitive was hiding. Gunfire erupted and Daraghmeh was killed. The Hamas fugitive later died in a shootout with soldiers.
After the AP footage of the Nablus incident was broadcast on Israeli TV earlier this week, B'Tselem, a leading human rights group, sent a letter to the army requesting an investigation.
"As you know, no doubt, the Supreme Court has prohibited any use of human shields in any possible form," the letter said, adding that it was the fourth time the rights group has complained to the army about the practice.
Jessica Montell, B'Tselem's executive director, said "the video raises serious concerns that the army is violating the high court judgment and forcing a Palestinian to ... illegally take part in the military's operations."
While the army declined to comment on the video beyond its statement, a military official said the army has carefully obeyed the Supreme Court ruling and would launch a criminal investigation into suspected violations. The official, who was not allowed to be identified under military rules, said he had not seen the video.
Yaacov Amidror, a retired general who is a security specialist at the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, said the use of civilians in arrest raids remains the best way to protect soldiers and innocent people.
"The procedure is the most moral and logical thing in the world," he said. The court's ban, he said, "seems liberal, but is in fact a bad decision for the residents of the house and for other civilians nearby."
Addressing the issue of Amira being taken to his own home by the soldiers, Sarit Michaeli, spokeswoman for B'Tselem, said the issue is "danger to the civilian," not which apartment he is sent to by soldiers, even his own.
-In a military operation taking place in Balata Refugee Camp (Nablus, Occupied Palestine), IOF troops forced two youngsters to serve as human shields. A filmmaker from RJI caught the scene and other shots of the military operation and home demolition on tape.
Balata Camp(Nablus): children used as human shields by the Israeli army.



Palestinian man used as human shield by Israeli forces during their latest raid in the occupied West Bank town of Dura. The army killed 2 Palestinians and injured 10 others during the incursion.

5 times Israel used Palestinians as human shields

Debunking Israel’s Bogus Human Shields Lie

Israeli army 'used us as human shields,' Jenin resident says
Human shield' dies as Hamas man is killed by troops by Ha’aretz(Israeli media): Despite state promises to the High Court of Justice that the Israel Defense Forces would cease using "human shields" during operations, a 19-year-old teenager was killed yesterday when a Border Patrol counter terrorism force moved in on a house in the Jenin area where a wanted Hamas man was hiding.
Nasser Jerar, who lost his legs and an arm a year ago during preparations of a attack, was one of the most wanted men on the IDF's suspect list as the orchestrator of many Hamas attacks; most recently, he was the mastermind behind a plot to bring down a multi-story building in Tel Aviv.
Shin Bet information led the counter-terror unit to the village of Tubas in the pre-dawn hours yesterday, where Jerar was believed hiding in a building complex.
The force surrounded the complex and called out with megaphones for Jerar to give himself up. When there was no response, the force took neighbor Nidal Abu Muhsein, the 19-year-old nephew of a B'Tselem field investigator, and had him go door-to-door calling on the residents to leave. In May, the state responded to several petitions to the High Court by human rights groups petitioning against the use of such "human shields" in military operations. In the state's response, the army promised it would cease the use of the method, often used by the army to examine suspicious objects or move through areas suspected of being mined.
The youth knocked on several doors, calling on people to leave. They all did, but not in the case of one house. When Muhsein knocked on that door, said the IDF, a burst of bullets killed him. Tubas residents said the bullets did not come from inside the house.
In any case, troops opened fire, but unsure whether Jerar had been killed, and suspecting he may have booby-trapped the house, the army called in a bulldozer, which proceeded to knock down the house on Jerar.
Jerar, 44, was born in Wadi Burkin, in the northern West Bank, and was one of the Hamas military commanders in the Nablus and Jenin area, orchestrating many attacks carried out inside Israel over the past few years. Until year ago, he took part in many of those attacks, but in May 2001, on his way to ambush IDF forces, one of the bombs he had prepared blew up, taking his legs and an arm. Confined to a wheelchair, he continued playing a leading role in Hamas military activities in the Jenin area, becoming commander of the Hamas cells of the northern West Bank.
Based on information from various associates of his captured during the past several months, the Shin Bet discovered his hiding place - and the fact he was plotting a "mega-terror" type bombing: the collapse of a multi-story building in the center of the country. He had already collected intelligence on the operation, and recruited the operatives and was building the bomb for the mission.[For Palestinians , Jarrar is considered as a brave freedom fighter who fought the occupation and died for his land.]
The use of a "human shield" yesterday is likely to prompt new petitions to the High Court, which on the basis of the IDF promise in May did not issue a verdict on the issue. Inside the IDF there are senior officers who are vehemently opposed to the use of human shields, saying that it is better to risk the military force than innocent people.
The IDF Spokeswoman's Office dryly reported the use of the neighbor, saying that the force surrounding the house used the Megaphone to tell the occupants a neighbor was approaching, and that Muhsein was shot by the terrorists inside the house.
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL, for its part, did not find evidence that Hamas or other Palestinian groups violated the laws of war to the extent repeatedly alleged by Israel. In particular, it found no evidence that Hamas or other fighters directed the movement of civilians to shield military objectives from attacks. By contrast, Amnesty International did find that Israeli forces on several occasions during Operation “Cast Lead” forced Palestinian civilians to serve as “human shields”. In any event, international humanitarian law makes clear that use of “human shields” by one party does not release the attacking party from its legal obligations with respect to civilians. Amnesty International delegates interviewed many Palestinians who complained about Hamas’ conduct, and especially about Hamas’ repression and attacks against their opponents, including killings, torture and arbitrary detentions, but did not receive any accounts of Hamas fighters having used them as “human shields”. In the cases investigated by Amnesty International of civilians killed in Israeli attacks, the deaths could not be explained as resulting from the presence of fighters shielding among civilians, as the Israel army generally contends. In all of the cases investigated by Amnesty International of families killed when their homes were bombed from the air by Israeli forces, for example, none of the houses struck was being used by armed groups for military activities. Similarly, in the cases of precision missiles or tank shells which killed civilians in their homes, no fighters were present in the houses that were struck and Amnesty International delegates found no indication that there had been any armed confrontations or other military activity in the immediate vicinity at the time of the attack.
While the presence of Hamas and other fighters and weapons within civilian areas is not contested, this in itself is not conclusive evidence of intent to use civilians as “human shields”. The presence of weapons in residential areas is likely, for instance, to be more the result of a growing gun culture in Gaza ( same in WB or Texas ) and the increasing internal tensions between Palestinian factions, which have led Hamas and Fatah, as well as some other groups, to keep weapons supplies close at hand to fight each other in recent years. The close proximity of the military and weapons to civilian areas is also not unusual in Israel. The headquarters of the Israeli army is in a densely populated area of central Tel Aviv. In Ashkelon, Sderot, Bersheva and other towns in the south of Israel, as well as elsewhere in the country, military bases and other installations are located in or around residential areas, including kibbutzim and villages. (In other words , they also fire from nearby civilian areas and are present around it , so why the hypocrisy? ) Additionally, Gaza is one of the mostly densely populated areas in the world , hamas would probably store their weapons in civilian built up buildings cause it would be illogical for a city state with no Air Force, to put them in a warehouse with a big red X on top. Israel has the luxury of storing these items in military bases, while Hamas does not. They are not going to put a big a red mark on all their military apparatus given they have no Air Force. During Operation “Cast Lead” there were more Israeli military positions and activities than usual close to civilian areas in the south of Israel, and Israeli forces launched daily artillery and other attacks into Gaza from these areas along Gaza’s perimeter.
The Israeli Defense Forces have been repeatedly accused of using Palestinian children to enter buildings that might be booby trapped ahead of them, to shield themselves from fire, and to search out explosives, according to Amnesty International and UNICEF, most recently in 2013.
Meanwhile, both Amnesty International and the United Nations Fact Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict in 2008-2009, found no evidence that Hamas was using human shields.
Amnesty confirmed their previous assertion that Hamas was not using human shields in late July, 2014.
EURO-MID OBSERVER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS: This report presents documented cases of Palestinian civilians used as human shields by Israeli military forces during the 50-day conflict in the Gaza Strip, 8 July-26 August, 2014(Operation protective edge). It also discusses Israeli claims that Palestinian armed factions used their own civilians as human shields. After interviewing Palestinians who reported being used as shields by Israeli forces, and documenting the testimonies of additional eyewitnesses, EuroMid Observer concluded that the Israeli army committed this violation of international law in at least six cases in Khan Younis, in the southern Gaza Strip. These civilians were held against their will for hours or days to protect Israeli soldiers from fire, and in the meantime were subjected to inhumane and abusive treatment such as beating, humiliation and exposure to the hot sun while naked for long periods of time. Israeli authorities deny using Palestinian civilians as human shields. However, the testimonies documented by Euro-Mid prove the lie. Moreover, it seems that using Palestinian civilians as human shields is an Israeli policy, since other, similar cases have been documented in the West Bank. In contrast, the Euro-Mid team did not find any evidence of Palestinians who were forced to stay in their homes or to use their bodies for the protection for Palestinian resistance factions. Likewise, the Israeli army did not provide any evidence to substantiate their accusations. Moreover, the UN’s Goldstone Report issued following Operation Cast Lead in 2009 exonerated Palestinian armed factions from previous claims by Israeli forces that Palestinians used their own people as human shields. The use of human shields is a form of cruel and inhumane treatment, and constitutes a flagrant violation of the international humanitarian law and a war crime according to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.
Some quotes from Israeli leaders legitimizing targeting civilians:
In the war on Lebanon in the summer of 2006, the Israeli chief of staff, Lt. Gen. Dan Halutz, said to the New York Times that he wanted to deliver:
"A clear message to both greater Beirut and Lebanon that they've swallowed a cancer and have to vomit it up, because if they don't their country will pay a very high price." (NYTimes July 15th, 2006)
Moshe Dayan (a former Israeli Defense Minister) wrote in the 1955 regarding the collective punishments imposed on Palestinian civilian population by the Israeli Army:
"The only method that proved effective, not justified or moral but effective, when Arabs plant mines on our side [in retaliation]. If we try to search for the [particular] Arab [who planted mines], it has not value. But if we harass the nearby village . . . then the population there comes out against the [infiltrators] . . . and the Egyptian Government and the Transjordan Government are [driven] to prevent such incidents because their prestige is [assailed], as the Jews have opened fire, and they are unready to begin a war . . . the method of collective punishment so far has proved effective." (Righteous Victims, p. 275-276)
And in the 1950s Dayan also stated on the same subject :
"We could not guard every water pipeline from being blown up and every tree from being uprooted. We could not prevent every murder of a worker in an orchard or a family in their beds. But it was in our power to set high price for our blood, a price too high for the [Palestinian] Arab community, the Arab army, or the Arab governments to think it worth paying. . . . It was in our power to cause the Arab governments to renounce 'the policy of strength' toward Israel by turning it into a demonstration of weakness." (Iron Wall, p. 103)
The "too high" of a price Dayan is referring to is the collective punishment such as house demolition, uprooting trees,..etc
Moshe Feiglin, deputy speaker of the Israeli parliament(Knesset) from Netanyahu’s Likud party said in 2014:
"Our soldiers are the only innocents in Gaza. Under no circumstances should they be killed because of false morality that prefers to protect enemy civilians. One hair on the head of an Israeli soldier is more precious than the entire Gazan populace, which elected the Hamas and supports and encourages anyone who murders Israelis."
Ayelet Shaked, Israel’s minister of justice said in 2014:
“Behind every terrorist stand dozens of men and women, without whom he could not engage in terrorism. Actors in the war are those who incite in mosques, who write the murderous curricula for schools, who give shelter, who provide vehicles, and all those who honor and give them their moral support. They are all enemy combatants, and their blood shall be on all their heads. Now this also includes the mothers of the martyrs, who send them to hell with flowers and kisses. They should follow their sons, nothing would be more just. They should go, as should the physical homes in which they raised the snakes. Otherwise, more little snakes will be raised there.”
Benjamin Netanyahu, previous prime minister of Israel said in 2001:
“[The way to deal with Palestinians is to] beat them up, not once but repeatedly, beat them up so it hurts so badly, until it’s unbearable.”
Another documents that conclusively prove the use of the Israeli army of Palestinians and especially the children as human shields:
Use of Palestinian Civilians as Human Shields in Violation of High Court of Justice Order By B`TSELEM: It’s proven in this report that for a long time, the IDF has been using Palestinians as human shields and ordering them to carry out military tasks that pose a threat to their lives. In implementing this policy, Palestinian civilians have been forced to carry out tasks such as removing suspicious objects from roads, ordering people to leave their homes to be arrested by the IDF, and standing in front of soldiers who were fi ring from behind them. These tasks were forced upon civilians who were chosen at random and could not refuse the orders given to them by armed soldiers. B'Tselem is an Israeli Jerusalem-based non-profit organization whose stated goals are to document human rights violations in the Israeli-occupied territories, combat denial of the existence of such violations, and help to create a human rights culture in Israel.
Recruitment and Use of Palestinian Children in Armed Conflict By Defense for children international(DCI):The key findings here are :
-In 16 out of the 17 cases involving the use of Palestinian children as human shields, the event occurred after a ruling by the Israeli High Court of Justice declared the practice illegal under domestic law. This would suggest that the Israeli army is either ignoring the court’s judgment, or not properly ensuring compliance with its ruling. It is also significant to note that in only one case was anybody held accountable for using a child as a human shield.
-The report identifies 16 cases in which attempts were made by Israeli authorities to recruit children as informants, most recently in November 2011. Most attempts at recruitment occur during interrogation following arrest and the report identifies a number of methods, including the offer of money and early release. Due to the sensitive nature of the subject and the reluctance to talk, it is difficult to ascertain the scale of the problem, although there is anecdotal evidence to suggest that the practice is widespread.
Gaza: Human Shields | Al Jazeera World : For 50 days, more than 6,000 air strikes, 14,500 tanks shells and 45,000 artillery shells were fired on Gaza as Israel decimated the Palestinian enclave in Operation protective edge.
More than 2,200 Palestinians, including 551 children were killed, as Israel attempted to end rocket attacks and destroy tunnels used by Hamas and other Palestinian groups.
As shells, bombs and rockets laid waste to Gaza, both sides were engaged in a propaganda battle as the civilian death toll continued to rise.
The Israeli government repeatedly claimed that Palestinian groups were to blame, accusing them of using women and children as human shields as they fired rockets into Israel.
In Gaza: Human Shields, we speak to civilians, academics and human rights advocates who have accused the Israeli military of employing the tactic as they battled Hamas.
We hear testimony from Palestinians being forcing them to walk in front of Israeli soldiers at gunpoint and enter potentially hostile buildings.
We examine evidence alleging Israel's long-standing practice of human shields and explore whether Hamas used residential buildings and civilian areas to launch attacks.
"They [the Israeli army] took me and put me on top of a tank", Anas Najjar, a resident of the battered southern town of Khuazaa says; while Ramy Abdu of the Euro-Mediterranean Human Rights Monitor says there is "enough files to condemn Israel and prove it's committed war crimes by using civilians as human shields."
Showing both Israeli and Palestinian perspectives on the use of human shields, Gaza: Human Shields follows on from a recently-published UN enquiry into war crimes during the July-August 2014 war.

Jeremy Bowen, BBC Middle East editor: "I saw no evidence during my week in Gaza of Israel's accusation that Hamas uses Palestinians as human shields." The Guardian: "In the past week, the Guardian has seen large numbers of people fleeing different neighbourhoods.. and no evidence that Hamas had compelled them to stay." The Independent: "Some Gazans have admitted that they were afraid of criticizing Hamas, but none have said they had been forced by the organisation to stay in places of danger and become unwilling human-shields." Reuters, 2013: "A United Nations human rights body accused Israeli forces on Thursday of mistreating Palestinian children, including by torturing those in custody and using others as human shields."
Palestinian children tortured, used as shields by Israel: U.N. by Stephanie Nebehay

Israel-Gaza conflict: Myth of Hamas’s human shield. Gazans deny being put in line of fire by Kim Sengupta
What used to be a three-storey house had been turned into debris sunk into a deep crater with twisted steel rods jutting out. Twenty-six people were killed in the mostly deadly air-strike so far in this bloody conflict. Twenty-four of them were from one family, the Abu Jamaa.
Jamilla Alaiwa, a 59 year old social worker who founded the home 24 years ago told me that this was categorically untrue. “If the Israelis have proof of this let them make it public. There was no one from Islamic Jihad or Hamas living there.

Testimonies of Israeli soldiers talking about employment of Palestinian civilians, mainly children as human shields. BREAKING THE SILENCE organization is an Israeli organization made by Israeli soldiers

“So he just stopped a Palestinian guy who was passing, forty-something years old, and tied him to the hood of the jeep, a guy just lying on the hood, and they drove into the village. No one threw any more rocks. A human shield. Yes. But not just a human shield—first of all, a human shield is bad enough—this was a moving human shield. Tied to the hood of the jeep and they drove with him tied there. Drove with him through the village, it’s horrific.”
Breaking the Silence › Testimony › A moving human shield
Israeli human rights group B’tselem accuses Israel forces of using Palestinian civilians including children as Human shields.
Btselem|Human Shields
A recent video shared by Ofir Gendelman, the spokesman for Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyah recently accusing hamas of using human shields, turns out it is filmed in 2018 from Syria. Fact Check-Video shared by high-profile Israeli official was filmed in Syria in 2018 – not Gaza in 2021
Hamas welcomed The international criminal court for investigation of war crimes, Israel did not, WHY?!
ICC opens investigation into war crimes in Palestinian Territories by Peter Beaumont


Busting the myth of Palestinian “human shields” in Gaza by Saad Hasan
Palestinian Children Being Used as Human Shields by Israeli army : Since April 2004, DCI-Palestine has documented 20 cases involving Palestinian children being used as human shields by the Israeli army. Nineteen of the 20 cases have occurred after the Israeli High Court of Justice ruled the practice to be illegal in October 2005.


Israeli forces use Palestinian child as human shield in Gaza, Aug 21,2014
Israeli forces use Palestinian child as human shield in Gaza
The fallacy of Israel’s human shields claims in Gaza by Neve Gordo, and Nicola Perugini

Israeli media, Ha‘aretz: IDF Still Uses Human Shields, in Violation of High Court Ruling


Media demand Israel explain destruction of news offices by Alexandra Olson
Pruitt, the AP’s CEO, said the news agency had been in the building for 15 years and “we have had no indication Hamas was in the building or active in the building.”
“We have called on the Israeli government to put forward the evidence,” he said. “This is something we actively check to the best of our ability. We would never knowingly put our journalists at risk.”
“The world will know less about what is happening in Gaza because of what happened today,”

Israeli army claimed a video showed Hamas rockets next to homes in Gaza. But it was a lie. The video was of decoy rockets from an Israeli military exercise in 2018.

Palestinians aren't using human shields, Israel is by CJ Werleman

This is how Israel uses its own people as human shields by TRTWORLD

Israel Flouts Distinction between Civilians and Combatants

Myth: Palestinians use human Shields

Debunking Israel’s ‘Human Shield’ Defense in Gaza Massacre by Abby Martin





Human Rights Watch investigated three Israeli strikes that killed 62 Palestinian civilians where there were no evident military targets in the vicinity.


Part of Israeli and western media's propaganda campaign against the Palestinian people and their legitimate cause is that Israel and the western media absolutely refuse to differentiate between terrorism and legitimate Palestinian armed resistance.
The Palestinians have the right under international law to resist occupation, ethnic cleansing, land theft, aggression, and colonization. And Israel as an occupying power cannot justify military force as self-defense in territory for which it is responsible for as the occupant. By definition, an aggressor cannot act in defense. Israel is asserting rights that may be consistent with colonial domination but simply do not exist under International Law.
General Assembly Resolution A/RES/3246 (XXIX) of 29 November 1974:
Reaffirms the legitimacy of the peoples’ struggle for liberation from colonial and foreign domination and alien subjugation by all available means, including armed struggle; and strongly condemns all Governments which do not recognize the right to self-determination and independence of peoples under colonial and foreign domination and alien subjugation, notably the peoples of Africa and the Palestinian people.
United Nations General Assembly Resolution A/RES/33/24 of 29 November 1978:
Reaffirms the legitimacy of the struggle of peoples for independence, territorial integrity, national unity and liberation from colonial and foreign domination and foreign occupation by all available means, particularly armed struggle.”
The mainstream US media outlets are actively concealing the alarming displays of genocidal racism emanating from Israeli society. Violence against Palestinians is nothing new. Israel’s ongoing colonial project requires enormous levels of brutality against Palestinians. But this daily reality is only newsworthy when it blows back against Zionists.
It has been an Israeli strategy from the start to use civilian targets as a strategic weapon. Israeli leaders assume this would cause the civilian population to pressure Arab leaders to submit to Israel. Sadly, this Israeli tactic has been historically effective with the corrupt and unpopular Arab leaders who are more interested in protecting their corrupt regimes than defending their countries. The "Grape of Wrath" agreement between Hezbollah and Israel in 1996 which restricted both sides from hitting civilian targets. This agreement signaled the end of the Israeli occupation in southern Lebanon, and as a result, a new era in the Arab Israeli conflict have begun where Israel's deterrence power suffered a major setback. It should be noted that Israel has been determined not to fall into this trap again; that would explain why Israel rejected signing similar agreements with Hamas. The allegation that Palestinian resistance use their own family members as human shield has been concocted by Zionists to delegitimize any Palestinian resistance, and to deflect from the war crimes that are being perpetrated on the people of Gaza. Palestinians are no different than any other colonized nations; they're simply defending their homeland from foreign aggression. The myth of Palestinians using “Human Shields” , is nothing but a clear example of projection deployed by the Zionist Hasbara, only the gullible continue to be fooled.
“The media's the most powerful entity on earth. They have the power to make the innocent guilty and to make the guilty innocent, and that's power. Because they control the minds of the masses.”
-Malcolm X





 you can check the url/Does-Hamas-really-use-its-own-civilians-as-human-shields/answer/Handala-2