Gaza had an airport.


Israel destroyed it.
Palestinians had an airport in the Westbank as well, Qalandia’s Jerusalem airport, Israel stole it, used it only for Israelis, and then converted it to a widespread Settlement Project.



Jerusalem Airport (Qalandia).... We had an airport by alquds news paper

A visit to Jerusalem Airport between the past and the present by Palestine TV
Jerusalem International Airport or as It's commonly called 'Qalandia Airport', is a regional airport that is currently unused, located between the cities of Jerusalem and Ramallah near the Qalandia town, Its establishment began in 1920 and It was opened for business in 1924. It was the first airport in the time of the British Mandate in Palestine. Royal Jordanian Airlines used the airport and began daily commercial flights to and from the airport before 1967 during the Jordanian administration of the West Bank. After the Israeli occupation of the West Bank, Israel took control of the airport. It annexed it in 1981. The airport was closed to civilian traffic after the outbreak of the second Palestinian uprising in 2000 (2nd Intifada). Qalandia Airport was the only airport from 1924 to 1927 during the era of the British Mandate for Palestine. It was used by the British military authorities and their notable guests heading for Jerusalem. In 1931, the British Mandate authorities confiscated 200 dunums to expand Qalandia Airport from Palestinian lands that were seized by Jewish settlers who established the settlement of Atarot, where Palestinian homes were demolished and orchards uprooted. In 1936, the airport was opened for regular flights.

Palestinian Lydda airport built in 1934 was stolen by Zionists after ethnically cleansing the city of lydda from its inhabitants, the leading architect of the operation, Ben Gurion was the one who gave the orders for the dispossession of Palestinians there from their city. The name of the airport was changed by Zionists from Lydda to Lod, and later on to Ben Gurion airport.

Lydda airport, 1939.

Lydda airport, 1944.
The city of Lod in the middle of occupied Palestine has a rich history and a continuous resistance.







 you can check the url/If-Gibraltar-can-have-its-own-airport-why-cant-Gaza-have-its-own-airport/answer/Handala-2