The origins of Palestinians are complex and diverse. The region was not originally Arab nor Jewish – its Arabization was a consequence of the inclusion of Palestine within the rapidly expanding Arab Empire conquered by Arabian tribes and their local allies in the first millennium, most significantly during the Muslim conquest of the Levant in the 7th century. 1


Palestine, then part of the Byzantine Diocese of the East, a Hellenized region with a large Christian population, came under the political and cultural influence of Arabic-speaking Muslim dynasties, including the Kurdish Ayyubids. 1
From the conquest down to the 11th century, half of the world’s Christians lived under the new Muslim order and there was no attempt for that period to convert them. 1
Over time, nonetheless, much of the existing population of Palestine was Arabized and gradually converted to Islam. 2
Significant Arab populations had existed in Palestine before the conquest, and some of these local Arab tribes and Bedouin fought as allies of Byzantium in resisting the invasion, which the archaeological evidence indicates was a ‘peaceful conquest’, and the newcomers were allowed to settle in the old urban areas.
Theories of population decline compensated by the importation of foreign populations are not confirmed by the archaeological record. 3 4
The Palestinian population has grown dramatically. For several centuries during the Ottoman period, the population in Palestine declined and fluctuated between 150,000 and 250,000 inhabitants, and it was only in the 19th century that rapid population growth began to occur. 5

Palestine with the Hauran and the adjacent districts,William Hughes,1843.


Edward Said and his sister, Rosemarie Said (1940)
The Palestinians are descendants of ancient civilizations and religions that lived in the region for centuries, including Canaanites who came from the Arabian peninsula and the East. 6 7 8 9
While Palestinian culture is primarily Arab and Islamic, Palestinians identify with earlier civilizations that inhabited the land of Palestine.
According to Walid Khalidi, in Ottoman times:
“The Palestinians considered themselves to be descended not only from Arab conquerors of the seventh century but also from indigenous peoples who had lived in the country since time immemorial.”
Similarly, Ali Qleibo, a Palestinian anthropologist, argues:
Throughout history a great diversity of peoples has moved into the region and made Palestine their homeland: Canaanites, Jebusites, Philistines from Crete, Anatolian and Lydian Greeks, Hebrews, Amorites, Edomites, Nabataeans, Arameans, Romans, Arabs, and Western European Crusaders, to name a few. Each of them appropriated different regions that overlapped in time and competed for sovereignty and land. Others, such as Ancient Egyptians, Hittites, Persians, Babylonians, and the Mongol raids of the late 1200s, were historical ‘events’ whose successive occupations were as ravaging as the effects of major earthquakes … Like shooting stars, the various cultures shine for a brief moment before they fade out of official historical and cultural records of Palestine. The people, however, survive. In their customs and manners, fossils of these ancient civilizations survived until modernity—albeit modernity camouflaged under the veneer of Islam and Arabic culture. 10
George Antonius, the founder of modern Arab nationalist history, wrote in his seminal 1938 book The Arab Awakening:
The Arabs’ connection with Palestine goes back uninterruptedly to the earliest historic times, for the term ‘Arab’ [in Palestine] denotes nowadays not merely the incomers from the Arabian Peninsula who occupied the country in the seventh century, but also the older populations who intermarried with their conquerors, acquired their speech, customs and ways of thought and became permanently Arabised.11
Al-Quds University states that although
“Palestine was conquered in times past by ancient Egyptians, Hittites, Philistines, Israelites, Assyrians, Babylonians, Persians, Romans, Muslim Arabs, Mamlukes, Ottomans, the British, the Zionists … the population remained constant—and is now still Palestinian.“ 12
Zionist American historian Bernard Lewis writes:
Clearly, in Palestine as elsewhere in the Middle East, the modern inhabitants include among their ancestors those who lived in the country in antiquity. Equally obviously, the demographic mix was greatly modified over the centuries by migration, deportation, immigration, and settlement. This was particularly true in Palestine, where the population was transformed by such events as the Jewish rebellion against Rome and its suppression, the Arab conquest, the coming and going of the Crusaders, the devastation and resettlement of the coastlands by the Mamluk and Turkish regimes, and, from the nineteenth century, by extensive migrations from both within and from outside the region. Through invasion and deportation, and successive changes of rule and of culture, the face of the Palestinian population changed several times. No doubt, the original inhabitants were never entirely obliterated, but in the course of time they were successively Judaized, Christianized, and Islamized. Their language was transformed to Hebrew, then to Aramaic, then to Arabic.13
The Palestinians are the indigenous people of Palestine; their local roots are deeply embedded in the soil of Palestine and their autochthonous identity and historical heritage long preceded the emergence of a local Palestinian nascent national movement in the late Ottoman period and the advent of Zionist settler‑colonialism before the First World War. (Nur Masalha, PALESTINE: A FOUR THOUSAND YEAR HISTORY, p. 1)
The term “Arab”, as well as the presence of Arabians in the Syrian Desert and the Fertile Crescent, is first seen in the Assyrian sources from the 9th century BCE (Eph’al 1984). 14
Southern Palestine had a large Edomite and Arab population by the 4th century BCE. 15
Inscriptional evidence over a millennium from the peripheral areas of Palestine, such as the Golan and the Negev, show a prevalence of Arab names over Aramaic names from the Achaemenid period,550 -330 BCE onwards. 16 17
The Qedarite Kingdom, or Qedar(Arabic: مملكة قيدار‎, romanized: Mamlakat Qaydar, also known as Qedarites), was a largely nomadic, ancient Arab tribal confederation. Described as “the most organized of the Northern Arabian tribes”, at the peak of its power in the 6th century BCE it had a kingdom and controlled a vast region in Arabia. 18 19 20 21

Qedarite kingdom in the 5th century BCE
Biblical tradition holds that the Qedarites are named for Qedar, the second son of Ishmael, mentioned in the Bible’s books of Genesis (25:13) and 1 Chronicles (1:29), where there are also frequent references to Qedar as a tribe. 19 22
The earliest extrabiblical inscriptions discovered by archaeologists that mention the Qedarites are from the Neo-Assyrian Empire. Spanning the 8th and 7th centuries BCE, they list the names of Qedarite kings who revolted and were defeated in battle, as well as those who paid Assyrian monarchs tribute, including Zabibe, queen of the Arabs who reigned for five years between 738 and 733 BC. 23 24
There are also Aramaic and Old South Arabian inscriptions recalling the Qedarites, who further appear briefly in the writings of Classical Greek, such as Herodotus, and Roman historians, such as Pliny the Elder, and Diodorus.
It is unclear when the Qedarites ceased to exist as a separately defined confederation or people. Allies with the Nabataeans, it is likely that they were absorbed into the Nabataean state around the 2nd century CE. In Islam, Isma’il is considered to be the ancestral forefather of the Arab people, and in traditional Islamic historiography, Muslim historians have assigned great importance in their accounts to his first two sons (Nebaioth and Qedar), with the genealogy of the Islamic prophet Muhammad, alternately assigned to one or the other son, depending on the scholar.
The Ghassanid kingdom was a Christian Arab kingdom that existed in the ‘Three Palestines’ throughout the 3rd‒6th centuries. The Ghassanid Arabs (Arabic: al- Ghasasinah) were the biggest Arab group in Palestine. Their capital was at Jabiyah in the Golan heights. As a matter of fact, some prominent Christian families in Palestine today, such as Maalouf, Haddad and Khoury, can trace their lineage back to the Ghassanid kingdom. (Nur Masalha, PALESTINE: A FOUR THOUSAND YEAR HISTORY, pp. 136–144.).

First documented in the late Bronze Age, about 3200 years ago, the name Palestine (Greek: Παλαιστίνη; Arabic: فلسطين, Filastin), is the conventional name used between 450 BC and 1948 AD to describe a geographic region between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River and various adjoining lands. (Nur Masalha, PALESTINE: A FOUR THOUSAND YEAR HISTORY, p. 1.).
The name Palestine already appears in Luwian stone inscriptions in the North Syrian city of Aleppo during the 11th-century BCE. 25
The Greek toponym Palaistínē (Παλαιστίνη), with which the Arabic Filastin (فلسطين) is cognate, occurs in the work of the 5th century BCE Greek historian Herodotus, where it denotes generally the coastal land from Phoenicia down to Egypt. Herodotus also employs the term as an ethnonym, as when he speaks of the ‘Syrians of Palestine’ or ‘Palestinian-Syrians’, an ethnically amorphous group he distinguishes from the Phoenicians. Herodotus makes no distinction between the Jews and other inhabitants of Palestine. 26 27 28 29 30 31
The name Palestine is the most commonly used from the Late Bronze Age (from 1300 BC) onwards. The name is evident in countless histories,‘Abbasid inscriptions from the province of Jund Filastin, Islamic numismatic evidence maps (including ‘world maps’ beginning with Classical Antiquity) and Philistine coins from the Iron Age and Antiquity, vast quantities of Umayyad and Abbasid Palestine coins bearing the mint name of Filastin. The manuscripts of medieval al‑Fustat (old Cairo) Genizah also referred to the Arab Muslim province of Filastin.
From the Late Bronze Age onwards, the names used for the region, such as Djahi, Retenu and Cana’an, all gave way to the name Palestine.Throughout Classical and Late Antiquity, the name Palestine remained the most common. Furthermore, in the course of the Roman, Byzantine and Islamic periods the conception and political geography of Palestine acquired official administrative status. (Nur Masalha, PALESTINE: A FOUR THOUSAND YEAR HISTORY, p. 2.).
The Greek word reflects an ancient Eastern Mediterranean-Near Eastern word which was used either as a toponym or an ethnonym. In Ancient Egyptian Peleset/Purusati has been conjectured to refer to the “Sea Peoples”, particularly the Philistines.[Among Semitic languages, Akkadian Palaštu (variant Pilištu) is used of 7th-century Philistia and its, by then, four city-states.Biblical Hebrew’s cognate word Plištim is usually translated Philistines. 32 33 34 35 36
Syria Palestina continued to be used by historians and geographers and others to refer to the area between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River, as in the writings of Philo, Josephus, and Pliny the Elder.
After the Romans adopted the term as the official administrative name for the region in the 2nd century CE, “Palestine” as a stand-alone term came into widespread use, printed on coins, in inscriptions and even in rabbinic texts. 37
The Arabic word Filastin has been used to refer to the region since the time of the earliest medieval Arab geographers. It appears to have been used as an Arabic adjectival noun in the region since as early as the 7th century CE. 38
The Islamization of newly conquered lands, and their Arabization were two distinct phenomena. The Islamization process began instantly, albeit slowly. Persia, for example took over 2 centuries to become a majority Muslim province. The Levant, much longer. The Arabization of conquered provinces though, began later than their Islamization. The beginning of this process can be traced back to the Marwanid dynasty of the Ummayad Caliphate. Until that point, each province was ruled mostly with its own language, laws and currency. The process of the Arabization of the state united all these under Arabic speaking officials, and made it law that the language of state and of commerce would become Arabic. Thus, it became advantageous to assimilate into this identity, as many government positions and trade deals were offered only to Muslim Arabs.
So although the population of all of these lands (the lands conquered by Arabic Muslims in the 7th century, but not particularly all of the populace in Palestine due to significant Arab presence there as well in different eras and different Arabic kingdoms prior to that) were not all ethnically Arab, they came to identify as such over a millennium. Arab stopped being a purely ethnic identity, and morphed into a mainly cultural and linguistic one. In contrast to European colonialism of the new world, where the native population was mostly eradicated to make place for the invaders, the process in MENA is one of the conquered peoples mixing with and coming to identify as their conquerors without being physically removed, if not as Arabs, then as Muslims.
Following from this, the Palestinian Arabs of today did not suddenly appear from the Arabian Peninsula in the 7th century to settle in Palestine, but are the same indigenous peoples living there who changed how they identified over time. This includes the descendants of every group that has ever called Palestine their home.
Naturally, no region is a closed container. Trade, immigration, invasion and intermarriage all played a role in creating the current buildup of Palestinian society. There were many additions to the people of the land over the millennia. However, the fact remains that there was never a process where Arab or Muslim conquerors completely replacing the native population living there, only added to them.
10th century geographer al-Maqdisī, clearly saw himself as Palestinian:
One day I sat next to some builders in Shiraz; they were chiselling with poor picks and their stones were the thickness of clay. If the stone is even, they would draw a line with the pick and perhaps this would cause it to break. But if the line was straight, they would set it in place. I told them: ‘If you use a wedge, you can make a hole in the stone.’ And I told them of the construction in Palestine and I engaged them in matters of construction.
“The master stone-cutter asked me: Are you Egyptian?”
“I said: No, I am Palestinian.”
The Arabic newspaper Falastin (est. 1911), published in Jaffa by Issa and Yusef al-Issa, addressed its readers as Palestinians. 39
The Palestine Arab Congress was a series of congresses held by the Palestinian Arab population, organized by a nationwide network of local Palestinian Muslim-Christian associations, in the British Mandate of Palestine. Between 1919 and 1928, seven congresses were held in Jerusalem, Yaffa, Haifa, and Nablus. Despite broad public support their executive committees were never officially recognised by the British. 40
During the British occupation of Palestine, the term Palestinian was used to refer to all people residing there, regardless of religion or ethnicity, and those granted citizenship by the British Mandatory authorities were granted Palestinian citizenship. 41
Following the 1948 occupation of Palestine by the Zionists, the use and application of the terms “Palestine” and “Palestinian” by and to Palestinian Jews largely dropped from use. For example, the English-language newspaper The Palestine Post changed its name in 1950 to The Jerusalem Post. Jews in Israel and the West Bank today generally identify as Israelis. Palestinian citizens of “Israel” identify themselves as Palestinian. 42 43
The Palestinian National Charter, as amended by the PLO’s Palestinian National Council in July 1968, defined Palestinians as those Arab nationals who, until 1947, normally resided in Palestine regardless of whether they were evicted from it or stayed there. Anyone born, after that date, of a Palestinian father – whether in Palestine or outside it– is also a Palestinian. Note that “Arab nationals” is , not religious-specific, and it includes not only the Arabic-speaking Muslims of Palestine but also the Arabic-speaking Christians and other religious communities of Palestine who were at that time Arabic-speakers, such as the Samaritans and Druze. Thus, the Jews of Palestine were/are also included, although limited only to “the [Arabic-speaking] Jews who had normally resided in Palestine until the beginning of the [pre-state] Zionist invasion.” The Charter also states that “Palestine with the boundaries it had during the British Mandate, is an indivisible territorial unit." 44 45
Further reading:
Origins of Palestinian nationalism.
Origins of the name Palestine.
Footnotes:
Ira M. Lapidus, A History of Islamic Societies, (1988) Cambridge University Press 3rd.ed.2014 p. 156.
Dowty, Alan (2008). Israel/Palestine. London, UK: Polity. p. 221. “Palestinians are the descendants of all the indigenous peoples who lived in Palestine over the centuries; since the seventh century, they have been predominantly Muslim in religion and almost completely Arab in language and culture.”.
Gideon Avni, The Byzantine-Islamic Transition in Palestine: An Archaeological Approach, Oxford University Press 2014, pp. 312–324, 329.
Chris Wickham, Framing the Early Middle Ages; Europe and the Mediterranean, 400–900, Oxford University Press 2005, p. 130.
Kacowicz, Arie Marcelo; Lutomski, Pawel (2007). Population Resettlement in International Conflicts: A Comparative Study. Lexington Books. p. 194.
Salloum, H. (2017, November 8). The Glorious Origin of the Phoenicians. Arab America.
Wade, L. (2017, July 27). Ancient DNA reveals fate of the mysterious Canaanites. ScienceMag.
Lawler, A. (2020, May 28). DNA from the Bible’s Canaanites lives on in modern Arabs and Jews. National Geographic.
Arnaiz-Villena A, Elaiwa N, Silvera C, Rostom A, Moscoso J, Gómez-Casado E, Allende L, Varela P, Martínez-Laso J. The origin of Palestinians and their genetic relatedness with other Mediterranean populations. Hum Immunol. 2001.
Ali Qleibo (28 July 2007). “Palestinian Cave Dwellers and Holy Shrines: The Passing of Traditional Society”.
Antonius, The Arab Awakening, p. 390.
Jerusalem, the Old City: An Introduction, Al-Quds University.
Lewis, 1999, p. 49.
Eph`al I (1984) The Ancient Arabs, Magnes Press, Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
David F Graf, ‘Petra and the Nabataeans in the early Hellenistic Period: the literary and archaeological evidence, in Michel Mouton, Stephan G. Schmid (eds.), Men on the Rocks: The Formation of Nabataean Petra,] Logos Verlag Berlin GmbH, 2013 pp. 35–55 p. 46:’The question remains, what is the nature of the population in Petras during the Persian and Hellenistic period. The answer may come from southern Palestine, where Aramaic ostraca have been accumulating at a rapid pace in the past five decades, attesting to a large Edomite and Arab population in southern Palestine in the 4th century BC. None of this is surprising. There is evidence for the Qedarite Arab kingdom extending its sway into southern Palestine and Egypt in the Persian and Hellenistic eras.’.
Hagith Sivan, Palestine in Late Antiquity, Oxford University Press 2008 p. 267, n. 116.
Ran Zadok (1990). “On early Arabians in the Fertile Crescent”. Tel Aviv. 17 (2): 223–231.
Stearns and Langer, 2001, p. 41.
Eshel in Lipschitz et al., 2007, p. 149.
King,1993, p. 40.
Meyers, 1997, p. 223.
Bromiley, 1997, p. 5.
Teppo(2005): 47.
Jan Retsö, The Arabs in antiquity, (Routledge, 2003), p. 167.
Luwian Studies. (n.d.). The Philistines in Canaan and Palestine. Retrieved April 19, 2021, from The Philistines in Canaan and Palestine | Luwian Studies
Herodotus Book 3,8th logos.
Herodotus, The Histories, Bks. 2:104 (Φοἰνικες δἐ καὶ Σὐριοι οἱ ἑν τᾔ Παλαιστἰνῃ); 3:5; 7:89.
Cohen, 2006, p. 36.
Kasher, 1990, p. 15.
David Asheri, A Commentary on Herodotus, Books 1–4, Oxford University Press,2007 p.402:”‘the Syrians called Palestinians’, at the time of Herodotus were a mixture of Phoenicians, Philistines, Arabs, Egyptians, and perhaps also other peoples. . . Perhaps the circumcised ‘Syrians called Palestinians’ are the Arabs and Egyptians of the Sinai coast; at the time of Herodotus there were few Jews in the coastal area.”
W.W. How, J. Wells (eds.), A Commentary on Herodotus, Oxford, Clarendon Press, 1928, vol.1 p. 219.
pwlɜsɜtj. John Strange, Caphtor/Keftiu: a new investigation, Brill, 1980 p. 159.
Killebrew, Ann E. (2013), “The Philistines and Other “Sea Peoples” in Text and Archaeology”, Society of Biblical Literature Archaeology and biblical studies, Society of Biblical Lit, 15, p. 2.
The End of the Bronze Age: Changes in Warfare and the Catastrophe Ca. 1200 B.C., Robert Drews, pp. 48–61.
Seymour Gitin, ‘Philistines in the Book of Kings,’ in André Lemaire, Baruch Halpern, Matthew Joel Adams (eds.)The Books of Kings: Sources, Composition, Historiography and Reception, BRILL, 2010 pp. 301–363, for the Neo-Assyrian sources p. 312.
Strange 1980 p. 159.
Cohen, 2006, p. 37.
Kish, 1978, p. 200.
“Palestine Facts”.PASSIA: Palestinian Academic Society for the Study of International Affairs.
Khalidi, Rashid (2006) The Iron Cage. The Story of the Palestinian Struggle for Statehood.Oneworld Publications. p.42
Government of the United Kingdom (31 December 1930). “Report by His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the Council of the League of Nations on the Administration of Palestine and Trans-Jordan for the Year 1930”.League of Nations.
Berger, Miriam (18 January 2019). “Palestinian in Israel”.
Alexander Bligh (2 August 2004). The Israeli Palestinians: An Arab Minority in the Jewish State. Routledge.
“The Palestinian National Charter”. Permanent Observer Mission of Palestine to the United Nations.
Constitution Committee of the Palestine National Council Third Draft, 7 March 2003, revised on 25 March 2003 (25 March 2003).





 you can check the url/What-is-the-origin-of-the-Palestinian-Arabs/answer/Handala-2