A Zionist would usually use one or more of these mythical statements:
1. A land without a people for a people without a land/ Palestinians didn’t exist.
2. Israel made the desert bloom.
3. Palestinians are just Arabs that arrived in the 7th century.
4. The name “Palestine” was a Roman invention.
5. The “Conflict” is ancient.
6. The Palestinian question is about religion.
7. The Palestinian identity is “fake”.
8. Palestinian Nationalism was a KGB invention.
9. The United Nations created Israel.
10. Had Palestinians accepted the 1947 partition plan, they would have had a state by now / Palestinians were awarded their own country, they just simply rejected it.
11. The war of 1948 was inevitable self-defense for Israel.
12. Israel was out numbered and out gunned in 1948 war.
13. Palestinians left their communities based on Arab orders during the Nakba.
14. The ethnic cleansing of Palestine was an accident of war.
15. Only Zionists were called Palestinians during the mandate period.
16. Palestinians were economic migrants who moved to Palestine after Zionist induced prosperity.
17. The mandate of Palestine had a a Star of David on its flag.
18. Palestinians sold their lands to the Zionist settlers.
19. Palestinian refugees are unique.
20. Israel (or any other state) has a right to exist.
21. War of 1967 was self-defense.
22. Zionism is not colonialism, just jewish self determination.
23. Antizionism is antisemitism.
24. The mufti helped inspire the Holocaust.
25. Arabic governments ethnically cleansed their Jewish populations/ It was a fair population exchange between Palestinian refugees and Jewish refugees from many Arab countries.
26. Palestinian Christians are leaving due to Palestinian Muslims.
27. Palestinians sabotaged the peace process.
28. Arafat had no reason to reject Barack’s generous offer at Camp David.
29. The Israeli disengagement from Gaza was an act of peace, Gaza is no longer occupied.
30. Israel has always sought peace.
31. The IDF is the most moral army in the world.
32. Israel holds itself responsible for its human rights violations.
33. Israel is defending itself.
34. Palestinians use human shields.
35. Palestinians fake Israeli atrocities, and hire crisis actors (Pallywood).
36. The Palestinian Authority subsidizes “terrorism” (Pay to slay).
37. There is a media bias against Israel.
38. “From the river to the sea” is a call to genocide.
39. Israel is the only democracy in the Middle East.
40. All Israelis are equal.
41. Israel is not an apartheid state.
42. Palestinians living in Israel identify as Israeli Arabs, not Palestinians.
43. There’s not a single quote that calls for ethnic cleansing by Zionist leaders.
44. Palestinian right of return is not valid under international law, its only aim is destroy Israel.
45. You can’t be antisemitic if you support Israel.
46. Israel lost its “soul” after the 1967 occupation.
47. Falafel , Hummus, Kunafeh and Za’atar are Israeli.
48. The two- state solution is the only way forward.
49. Palestinians are not the only people to have been subjected to population transfer, it is normal in human history.
50. Zionism is uniquely Jewish.
51. God does not exist, and he has promised us this land.
52. Netanyahu [or any other Israeli politician] is/was the problem.
53. An increase in Palestinian population means no ethnic cleansing happened.
54. Israel was created because of the Holocaust.
55. Palestinians never had either a state nor any distinct culture or language of their own.
56. The “Hebron Massacre of 1929, clearly proves" that Palestinians are antisemitic.
57. It’s just so incredibly complicated.
This concludes my answer. Try to apply these to any argument about Palestine , and you can easily spot the Zionist. You are most welcome.






 you can check the url/What-are-some-ways-to-tell-if-someone-is-a-Zionist-or-not-when-talking-about-Israel-Palestine-issues-on-social-media/answer/Handala-2