A great crime against humanity.
Any person around the world has the right to defend their home and family when attacked. However, in the West, a Palestinian does not have that right despite the fact that his home and farms were stolen by Holocaust survivors.
Westerners (especially Europeans) for centuries took turns gang raping their Jewish citizens, and because of that, their guilty conscience burns them from the inside out. This guilty conscience (along with the powerful Zionist lobby) is the reason why the West covers up Israeli war crimes and continues to paint Israeli apartheid as "the only democracy in the Middle East". Somebody else has to pay for their crimes against the Jewish people , as long as it is not a Westerner who pays the price; this way they can sleep well at night.
History will show that not only has the West wronged Palestinians by making them pay for their crimes, but also that they have wronged their Jewish citizens twice: once for the many Holocausts they have committed against their own Jewish citizens, and the second for locking them into an endless struggle with stubborn Palestinian Arabs who will not sell their rights for any price.
Finally, I wish to tell every Westerner and Jew reading my answer how this conflict has little to do with religious differences; this conflict would have been the same even if other Arabs dispossessed Palestinians. We Palestinians don't wish to become anybody's psychological experiment; we don't want to become a make me feel good pill, we don't wish to become anybody's punching bag. We Palestinians don't wish to become anybody's messiah, and definitely we don't wish to be crossed for somebody else's sins. I have no problem in individuals seeking refuge, My home is open for them. However, if that individual wants to displace me and follow colonial notions, I will defend myself, my family, and my home. I am a Palestinian who actually empathizes with Jewish suffering. However, my homeland is so dear to me to give, no human can do that! For us Palestinians, Palestine is not only our homeland; it is our identity; it is the intoxication of our memories; Palestine is the Jewel of all Jewels. My homeland, Palestine, is not for sale.
-From Palestine with ♥️





 you can check the url/What-do-Palestinian-Arabs-think-of-the-Holocaust/answer/Handala-2