It wasn't Arabs but Europeans who took turns persecuting their Jewish citizens in the millions. Does that explain why they've eagerly voted for partioning Palestine in late 1947.
Theodor Herzl died thinking Israel will be in Uganda; not in Palestine.
Theodor Herzl(the founder of Zionism) created Zionism after he saw how the center of European liberalism (Paris) persecuted Alfred Dreyfus (French Jewish officer).
Most Jewish religious establishments were anti-Zionist until Ben Gurion (the founding father of the "Jewish state") bought them off (with money & power over civil courts) after Nakba.
The Middle East was always a refugee to Europe's Jews.
Palestinians were 89% of citizens (67% of the population) in Palestine as of 1948 and after war of Nakba they were reduced to 16%. It should be noted that 2/3 of Jews in Palestine arrived recently as refugees who escaped European persecution. Therefore, Nakba wasn't only about colonizing Palestine, but most importantly it was almost a complete replacement of the indigenous population.
Palestinians still own 94% of the lands in Palestine, and Israel proper Palestinians citizens of Israel are restricted to under 3% of the land! Here it is at UN’s website:

Pretending to be Jewish (when you aren’t) is a crime in Israel; but not the other way around. Similar laws exists against mixed marriages & segregated living! This is necessary since state services are designed to empower Jews ONLY. Guess who had similar race laws in the 1930s? Does this explain why Zionists NEVER condemned Nuremberg Race Laws!
Palestine (the most important land bridge) was neither empty nor destitute.
Zionist Jews never made the desert bloom, in the matter of fact deserts surface areas have increased & the Dead Sea almost disappeared. All could be easily verified via Google Earth. It should be noted that the Negev desert hasn't bloomed since the ice-age!
Zionism is all about creating a Jewish majority & when that was impossible (since European Jews voted with their feet & immigrated to the Americas), Zionists ethnically cleansed & dispossessed the majority, and airlifted Arab Jews to populate the emptied country. David Ben Gurion defined Zionism best in Baltimore 1941: Zionism is a TRANSFER of the Jews. Regarding the TRANSFER OF ARABS this is much easier than any other TRANSFER.
Palestinians have every right to resist those who dispossessed & ethnically cleansed them. Sadly, that was done by Holocaust survivors & their descendants. Therefore, Palestinians aren’t antisemitic. The true antisemites are those who turn antisemitism & the Holocaust into weapons to justify oppressing the indigenous people!
Zionists often make Palestinians blood libel for Mufti Hajj Amin’s alliance with Nazis late 1941, although it was done by very few Palestinians. On the other hand, most Europeans nations & leaders were given a free pass 3 years after Shoah although they did far worse & murdered millions of Europe's Jews!

It was Zionist Jews who were FIRST to normalize trade & relations with Hitler between 1933-39; YES 7 years of non-stop (even after Nuremberg Laws & Kristallnachtpogrom) wheeling & dealing with Hitler; YES, 9 years ahead of Mufti's & Vichy's dealings with Hitler. Well, here are the hidden facts about the Haavara (Transfer) Agreement from Zionists & Israeli sources.
When Adolf Eichmann visited Palestine in 1937, did he come to coordinate with Mufti Hajj Amin, or with Zionists' Haganah? You wouldn't think Zionist would deflect again to cover up their deeds? Here are the boring details.
To put it simply: Zionism is a settler colonial Jewish nationalist project based on dispossessing & ethnically cleansing the indigenous people. Pre-WWII, Zionists were a fringe minority and the mass majority of European Jews were against their fascist ideology. Sadly after Shoah, BUND (who dominated European Jewish politics) were destroyed, and Zionism hijacked Judaism, and now it is much closer to a cult! Albert Einstein was correct to calling Zionists a Nakba upon Jews as early as April 10th, 1948. The question you need to ask: Was Moshe Shertok (the 1st Israeli Foreign Minister & 2nd Israeli PM) accurate when he wrote 1956:
"I have learned that the state of Israel cannot be ruled in our generation without deceit and adventurism. These are historical facts that cannot be altered" (Simha Flapan, p. 52-53)
Can Zionism survive without lying?
Can Zionism survive without Hasbara?
That is why lying is deeply engrained with Zionism; and when you refuse to go along with its lies, then you are the antisemite, and a hater!





 you can check the url/What-are-the-most-important-facts-about-the-Israel-Palestine-conflict/answer/Handala-2