It’s blatant racist and colonial nature that called for and did in fact ethnically cleanse the Palestinians. The ongoing murders, massacres, apartheid, and land lefts committed by Zionists towards us for the past century, and the lying narratives that Zionists deploy and keep on changing as well. I will try to summarise this as much as possible, so bear with me:
Narrative number 1 : From the early stages of Zionism to the present, many Zionists have propagated the myth that the most important land-bridge in human history (Palestine) has been empty and destitute for two thousand year until it was later developed by the Israeli Jews. To facilitate such disinformation, the Zionists adopted the following slogan to entice European Jewry to emigrate to Palestine:
“A land with no people, for a people with no land”.
Had the Zionist leadership admitted the existence of an indigenous people, then they would have been obliged to explain how they intended to displace them.
Resorted to narrative number 2 : Palestinians are Arabs , They have 22 other Arab countries let them go there , and we only have 1 state . As if we just came over from there and never lived here for many centuries with no understanding of the history of the Palestinian population and the difference between being Arab and Arabized , nor the history of Arab tribalism and how they went from one place to another nor the history of qedarites or Nabateans or Cannanites or Religious conversion, and as if the Zionist state popped out of no where and was minding its own business and everyone decided to hate it out of the blue.
Based on historical , archaeological , and genetic studies that proved the 2nd narrative wrong , some “progressive Zionists” resorted to the new 3 narrative : Palestinians are indigenous , but we are also indigenous .We only have one state and we were persecuted by Europe and had no where else to go.

The question that begs to be posed here is persecuted by who, Palestinians ? NO. Why should Palestinians that allowed persecuted Jews in their homeland pay the price then?
All forms of Zionism whether political, labor or cultural Zionism called for Jewish majority.
How would you establish a majority when you are a minority and you own less than 7% of the land after years of buying lands from absentee landlords and kicking the Palestinian peasants out?
simple answer : Ethnic cleansing
For Zionists the conflict is always complicated:

It’s not , it’s very simple. The Palestinian narrative never changed, it has always been the same. Zionists came and colonized us ,we are under an brutal foreign occupation and an Apartheid. We want our Freedom and our human rights.
The Israel Project's Secret Hasbara Handbook Exposed
Mossad: Might or myth?
Zionism in itself called for one religious/ ethnic/racial superiority of one group while neglecting the Palestinian natives living here. The leaders made use of the poor persecuted Jews in Europe and convinced them that they will always be persecuted , and will always be under threat without establishing a state they rule , hence called for and did in fact establish a racist colonial imperial regime in Palestine.

So they started finding and funding the Zionist colonization projects in Palestine and elsewhere. They labeled themselves as colonization projects. The social and economic institutions founded by the early Zionists, which were central to the success of the Zionist project, were also unquestioningly understood by all and described as colonial. The most important of these institutions was the Jewish Colonization Association (in 1924 renamed the Palestine Jewish Colonization Association , and was renamed again and now known as the Jewish Charitable Association (ICA))This body was originally established by the German Jewish philanthropist Baron Maurice de Hirsch and later combined with a similar organization founded by the British peer and financier Lord Edmond de Rothschild. The JCA provided the massive financial support that made possible extensive land purchases “and the subsidies that enabled most of the early Zionist colonies in Palestine to survive and thrive before and during the Mandate period. Unremarkably, once colonialism took on a bad odor in the post–World War II era of decolonization, the colonial origins and practice of Zionism and Israel were whitewashed and conveniently forgotten in Israel and the West. In fact, Zionism—for two decades the coddled step-child of British colonialism—rebranded itself as an anticolonial movement.
Zionism, anti-Semitism and colonialism
When will the statue of Theodor Herzl fall ?
The colonization plan was prior to the 1900s. An article about a Conference of Zionists published on July 20, 1899 in the New York Times depicts how the Conference sought to “colonize Palestine” and discussed the purchasing of land with English Zionists.

The article explains that the conference discussed a paper from the English Zionist Federation “proposing the reestablishment of Judea as an independent State, suggesting the purchase of the Maccabean sites in Palestine, and the beginning of the work by the establishment of a Jewish colony and a Jewish Agricultural College there.” It further clarifies that “The site to be purchased comprises about fifty acres, six miles from a station on the railroad between Jappa and Jerusalem, and within sight of the sea and a large stretch of the Palestinian coast.” It notes that English Zionists have gathered 2,500 dollars in the currency of the period and request that quantity from the American Zionists. The article also explains that “On motion of Dr. Wise, the Federation voted $100 as the nucleus of the required fund of $2,500, the remainder to be raised by subscriptions from the 125 societies and individuals, both Jews and Gentiles. A general appeal to the public will be made.” It also conveys that delegates will be elected at the Zionist meeting in Baltimore.

The straightforward and comfortable manner with which the colonization is pursued is indicative how, before having to be concerned with the image of Zionism and public relations, Zionist leaders depicted their movement as a colonial mission during a time in which European nations were colonial powers.
When Palestinians understood the motives and the plan of the Zionists to build a state on their homeland, they rejected such preposterous colonial notion. Palestinians refused to sell their lands , and are still doing so until the current day. The Zionists then realized for their colonial project to work , they need to ethnically cleanse the Palestinians, as of what happened in the Nakba/catastrophe in 48, The Naksa in 67, and until this very day!
Mussolini’s Zionist fascist friend Jabotinsky made it clear :
“Zionist colonization must either be terminated or carried out against the wishes of the native population. This colonization can, therefore, be continued and make progress only under the protection of a power independent of the native population – an iron wall, which will be in a position to resist the pressure to the native population. This is, in toto, our policy towards the Arabs…” (Vladimir Jabotinsky, The Iron Wall, 1923).
Jabotinsky was a Russian Jewish Revisionist Zionist leader who founded well renowned Zionist terrorist organizations like Irgun in Palestine.
The Zionists’ colonial enterprise, aimed at taking over the country, necessarily had to produce resistance.
Jabotinsky wrote in 1925:
“If you wish to colonize a land in which people are already living, you must find a garrison for the land, or find a benefactor who will provide a garrison on your behalf.… Zionism is a colonizing venture and, therefore, it stands or falls on the question of armed forces.”(Expulsion of the Palestinians, P. 45)
At least initially, only the armed forces provided by Britain could overcome the natural resistance of those being colonized. All Zionists who would justify such colonialism and land theft on the basis of ridiculous indigenous claims need to have a look at History , archaeology, international law, and genetics. The indigenous native Palestinians don’t have to use such argument , because they have nothing to justify. Such justification for establishing a racist state based on massacres and ethnic cleansing is ridiculous to Palestinians and people of the free world. Ancient peoples move from one place to another .They settle where they find a fertile land that suits them. We are not living in 2000-5000 BC. This is the 21st century.

Ancient DNA reveals fate of the mysterious Canaanites
Jews and Arabs share genetic link to ancient Canaanites, study finds
Who were the Canaanites? New insight from 73 ancient genomes
Canaanites gradually moved from the 'Near East' to the Southern Levant
Other scholars, historians , and archaeologists show a strong evidence that Canaanites came from the Arabian peninsula as well The English historian Phillip Van, the late learned scholar Muhammad Kurd Ali , the former president of the Damascus Arab Academy, the Andalusian historian Ahmad ibn Sacd and Amir Maurice Shihab, Director of the Lebanese Department of Archaeology, all agree that the first people to emigrate from the Arabian Peninsula to what is now Lebanon, were the Canaanites who came in two waves.

Did the Zionists actually turn the deserts into farmland?
Was there Palestine and Palestinians before 1948?
Zionists leaders in their own words: Ethnic cleansing
It is a well known fact that Palestinians are descendants of ancient civilisations and religions that lived in the region, starting from Canaanites who came from the East and the Arabian peninsula. Applying the Zionist logic would mean people from Iran , Caucasus, Armenia , Azerbaijan, Lebanon and the Arabian peninsula (Bahrain, KSA, Kuwait, Yemen, Qatar, UAE, Oman..etc) have the right to ethnically cleanse them , would they agree to that ? I surely won’t. This gives no right whatsoever for people to go and colonise another region. In the case of settler colonialism large-scale population movements take place where the migrants maintain strong links with their or their ancestors’ former country, gaining significant privileges over other inhabitants of the territory by “such links”. It’s like saying my ancestors were all over the Middle East , I have a historical / religious / ethnic/ racial…. Whatever connection you may call it. Let us take parts of it by brute force and those who agree with my ideology will be superior to everyone who live there , because we as Palestinians were persecuted and have an ancient connection there. It shall be called The state of Handala or MENA or Cannan or Qedar ..etc.
This is colonialism, it’s colonization. It is absolute lunacy.





 you can check the urlhttps://palestinetoday.quora.com/What-do-Palestinian-find-unjust-about-Zionism-Let-Palestinians-alone-answer-1