Common misconceptions, and myths:
1. Palestine was a land without a people for a people without a land/ Palestinians didn’t exist : Was there Palestine and Palestinians before 1948?
2. Israel made the desert bloom: Did the Zionists actually turn the deserts into farmland?
3. Palestinians are just Arabs that arrived in the 7th century / My people were here before your people: Is it true that Palestinians are just Arabs who arrived in the 7th century?
4. The name “Palestine” was a Roman invention: Why do Zionists say Palestine was a Roman invention?
5. The “Conflict” is ancient: Is the Israeli-Palestinian conflict ancient?
6. The Palestinian question is about religion: Is it true that the Palestinian-Israeli conflict is religious in nature?
7. The Palestinian identity is “fake”: Why do some people claim that Palestinian identity is fake?
8. Palestinian Nationalism was a KGB invention: How did Palestinian nationalism begin?
9. The United Nations created Israel: Is it true that the United Nations created Israel?
10. Had Palestinians accepted the 1947 partition plan, they would have had a state by now / Palestinians were awarded their own country, they just simply rejected it :
Would the 1947 partition plan led to a Palestinian state today?
Is it true that Palestinians were awarded their own country by the United Nations in 1947 but they rejected it?
11. The war of 1948 was inevitable self-defense for Israel: Was the Arab-Israeli war of 1948 an inevitable self defense?
12. Israel was out numbered and out gunned in 1948 war:
Was Israel out numbered and outgunned in 1948 war?
How did 7 Arab countries manage to lose the Israeli war of independence against a small new country without a solid military?
13. Palestinians left their communities based on Arab orders during the 1948 war.
Palestinians fled in 1948 because the Arab armies encouraged them to do so. Are there historical proofs of that?
Can somebody please provide evidence of Arab radio broadcasts or newspaper articles exhorting Arabs to leave their villages during the 1948 War of Independence?
14. The ethnic cleansing of Palestine was an accident of war: Was the ethnic cleansing of Palestine an accident of war?
15. Only Zionists were called Palestinians during the mandate period: Is it true that only Zionists were called Palestinians during the Mandate period?
16. Palestinians were economic migrants who moved to Palestine after Zionist induced prosperity: Can you name a popular Zionist propaganda book?
17. The mandate of Palestine had a a Star of David on its flag: Is it true that the Mandate of Palestine had a Star of David as its flag?
18. Palestinians sold their lands to the Zionist settlers: Is it true that Palestinians sold their lands to Zionists and were not dispossessed in 1948?
19. Palestinian refugees are unique: Are Palestinian refugees unique?
20. Israel (or any other state) has a right to exist:“Do you affirm Israel’s right to exist?”?
21. War of 1967 was self-defense: Did Israel, Syria, Iraq, and Egypt begin the Six-Day War in 1967?
22. Zionism is not colonialism, just jewish self determination:
Isn't Zionism simply Jewish self determination?
What do Palestinian find unjust about Zionism?
23. Antizionism is antisemitism: Is antizionism often a form of antisemitism?
24. The mufti helped inspire the Holocaust:
Why do Zionists say that the Mufti of Jerusalem caused the Holocaust?
Did Zionists collaborate with Nazi during WWII and before?
25. Arabic governments ethnically cleansed their Jewish populations/ It was a fair population exchange between Palestinian refugees and Jewish refugees from many Arab countries: When people demand Palestinian right of return, we are told Arab-Jews are denied the right to return to their former countries. Is this true or Zionist propaganda?
26. Palestinian Christians are leaving due to Palestinian Muslims: Are Palestinian Christians leaving due to Palestinian Muslims?
27. Palestinians sabotaged the peace process: Palestinians sabotaged the peace process, is this true?
28. Arafat had no reason to reject Barack’s generous offer at Camp David: Why did Yasser Arafat reject Ehud Barak's 'generous' offer at Camp David?
29. The Israeli disengagement from Gaza was an act of peace, Gaza is no longer occupied: Was the Israeli disengagement from Gaza an act of peace?
30. Israel has always sought peace: Why do Zionists say: Israel has always sought peace?
31. The IDF is the most moral army in the world: Why do Zionists keep saying: The IDF is the moral army in the world?
32. Israel holds itself responsible for its human rights violations : Does Israel hold itself responsible for its human rights violations?
33. Israel is defending itself: Why do Israeli supporters always say Israel is only defending itself?
34. Palestinians use human shields: Does Hamas really use its own civilians as human shields?
35. Palestinians fake Israeli atrocities, and hire crisis actors (Pallywood): Is it true that Palestinians fake Israeli atrocities (pallywood)?
36. The Palestinian Authority subsidizes “terrorism” (Pay to slay): How come Palestinian terrorists who commit terrorist acts have their homes demolished but Israelis who commit terrorist attacks “simply” go to jail without having their homes demolished?
37. There is a media bias against Israel: Why do Zionists keep saying that there is media bias against Israel?
38. “From the river to the sea” is a call to genocide: Is it a call for genocide when Palestinians say “ From the river to the sea, Palestine will be free”?
39. Israel is the only democracy in the Middle East: Is Israel a democracy?
40. All Israelis are equal: Are all Israelis equal?
41. Israel is not an apartheid state: Is Israel an Apartheid state?
42. Palestinians living in Israel identify as Israeli Arabs, not Palestinians: Is it true that Palestinians living in Israel call themselves "Israeli Arabs"?
43. There’s not a single quote that calls for ethnic cleansing by Zionist leaders: What are some examples of quotes by Zionist and Israeli leaders that call for the ethnic cleansing of Palestinians?
44. Palestinian right of return is not valid under international law, its only aim is destroy Israel: What is the so-called "Palestinian Right of Return" that Palestinians keep mentioning?
45. You can’t be antisemitic if you support Israel: Is it true that you cannot be antisemitic if you support Israel?
46. Israel lost its “soul” after the 1967 occupation: Why did Israel lose its “soul” after the 1967 occupation?
47. Hummus , falafel, and Za’atar are Israeli: Are Falafel, Hummus, Knafeh, Za'atar, Musakhan, Shawarma, Shakshouka, Maqluba, Jerusalem Ka’ak, and Mansaf Israeli?
48. The two- state solution is the only way forward:
Is the two-state solution the only way forward for Palestine and Israel?
What is the perspective of Palestinians on two vs. one state?
49. Palestinians are not the only people to have been subjected to population transfer, isn't it normal in human history?
Palestinians are not the only people to have been subjected to population transfer, isn't it normal in human history?
50. Thou shall not steal.
Did Israelis steal and loot Palestine?
Will giving Palestinians money fix their economy?
51. Zionism is uniquely Jewish.
Did Western and European Christians support Zionism?
52. God does not exist, and he has promised us this land.
What role did the Bible play in supporting Zionist claims to Palestine?
53. God promised the descendants of Abraham the “promised Land”, Palestinians defy god. God promised the descendants of Abraham the ‘Promised Land’. Who do the Palestinians think they are defying the Almighty’s prophecy?
54. Netanyahu [ or any other Israeli politician] is/was the problem.
Now that Netanyahu is not going to be the next prime minister of Israel, do you believe there is finally a chance for a treaty to be signed by Israel and the Palestine?
55. An increase in Palestinian population means no ethnic cleansing happened: There was no ethnic cleansing because the Palestinian population increased.
56. Israel was created because of the Holocaust: Was Israel created as an atonement for the Holocaust?
58. Isn't it true that Palestinians never had either a state nor any distinct culture or language of their own?
Isn't it true that Palestinians never had either a state nor any distinct culture or language of their own?
59. It’s just so incredibly complicated: Why do people keep saying that the Israel-Palestine conflict is complicated?






 you can check the url/What-are-the-most-common-misconceptions-about-the-Israeli-Palestinian-conflict/answers/394277657