The Oslo Accords are a series of agreements signed between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) between 1993 and 1999 that were supposed to result in a so-called “final status agreement” by 1999 that would “achieve a just, lasting and comprehensive peace” between Israelis and Palestinians, according to the Declaration of Principles.
The Oslo Accords established the Palestinian Authority (PA) to govern Palestinians in pockets of the occupied West Bank and Gaza under the control of Israel’s occupying army. The PA was supposed to be an “Interim Self-Government'' and only last “for a transitional period not exceeding five years.” The final status agreement was supposed to be based on United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, which called for Israel to withdraw from the territories it occupied during the June 1967 war, including the West Bank, East Jerusalem, and Gaza. As a result, most Palestinians believed that the Oslo Accords would create an independent Palestinian state in the occupied territories alongside Israel, as part of the so-called “two-state solution” in Palestine/Israel advocated by the international community.






 you can check the url/What-are-the-Oslo-Accords-and-what-are-their-consequences-for-Israels-security-situation-in-general-and-Jerusalem-specifically-as-an-example-of-that-reality/answer/Handala-2The Oslo Accords are a series of agreements signed between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) between 1993 and 1999 that were supposed to result in a so-called “final status agreement” by 1999 that would “achieve a just, lasting and comprehensive peace” between Israelis and Palestinians, according to the Declaration of Principles.
The Oslo Accords established the Palestinian Authority (PA) to govern Palestinians in pockets of the occupied West Bank and Gaza under the control of Israel’s occupying army. The PA was supposed to be an “Interim Self-Government'' and only last “for a transitional period not exceeding five years.” The final status agreement was supposed to be based on United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, which called for Israel to withdraw from the territories it occupied during the June 1967 war, including the West Bank, East Jerusalem, and Gaza. As a result, most Palestinians believed that the Oslo Accords would create an independent Palestinian state in the occupied territories alongside Israel, as part of the so-called “two-state solution” in Palestine/Israel advocated by the international community.






 you can check the url/What-are-the-Oslo-Accords-and-what-are-their-consequences-for-Israels-security-situation-in-general-and-Jerusalem-specifically-as-an-example-of-that-reality/answer/Handala-2