I am a Palestinian who is called an “Israeli Arab” by Zionists and their supporters. The term Israeli Arab is an Oxymoron. We are Palestinian. There is no difference between the Palestinians living in Yaffa, Haifa, or Nazareth, and those living in Ramallah or Gaza. In the matter of fact, most are related to each other. This division was due to the establishment of the Zionist state in 1948, were more than 750 thousand Palestinian were ethnically cleansed, and were mainly dispersed into the West Bank, Gaza, and surrounding countries.
Today palestinian refugees make up about 6 Million, many living in refugee camps, they constitute half of the number Palestinians in the world.
The small minority of Palestinians, about 160,000, who had managed to avoid expulsion and remained in the part of Palestine that had become Israel were now citizens of that state. Israel’s government, dedicated above all to serving the country’s new Jewish majority, viewed this remaining population with deep suspicion as a potential fifth column. Until 1966, most Palestinians lived under strict martial law and much of their land was seized (along with that of those who had been forced from the country and were now refugees). This stolen land, an expropriation deemed legal by the Israeli state, including the bulk of the country’s arable areas, was given to Jewish settlements or the Israel Lands Authority, or placed under the control of the JNF, whose discriminatory charter prescribed that such property could only be used for the benefit of the Jewish people.
For various reasons, such as a commander’s decision during war, or the location of a village, or just by pure chance, some Palestinians were not ethnically cleansed during and after the establishment of Israel. It is estimated that these make around 20% of the original Palestinian population that remained, while the rest were forcefully expelled through various means.
This does not mean that the spared population had sided with the Zionist forces or are different from other Palestinians. For example, the city of Nazareth was spared because the Zionist commander thought that ethnically cleansing such a large amount of Palestinian Christians at the same time would look bad for Israel. However, ethnically cleansing smaller Christian and mixed villages around Nazareth and elsewhere was fine.
It should be noted that the destruction of Palestinian villages had nothing to do with whether they participated in the war of 1948 or not. Neutral villages with non-aggression pacts with the Yishuv were also ethnically cleansed.

Thousands of Palestinians in Umm al-Fahm wave Palestinian flags as they take part in the annual "March of Return" commemorating the Nakba/Catastrophe on May 9, 2019.

Palestinian citizens demonstrate in Yaffa against Israeli airstrikes last month against Gaza.
Further Information:
Is it true that Palestinians living in Israel call themselves "Israeli Arabs"?
The Mandate years and the Nakba.
Long overlooked, Israel’s Arab citizens are increasingly asserting their Palestinian identity





 you can check the url/Where-did-the-Israeli-Arabs-come-from-mostly-Which-countries-I-m-not-talking-about-Palestinians-in-Israel/answer/Handala-2