Zionism only cared about establishing a Jewish state, and specific certain group of Jews that will contribute to this foundation. Both Zionism and Nazism are disgusting racist ideologies that should dissipate.
In the days of Hitler and Mussolini, the Zionist leaders behaved in an ambivalent way with regards to Fascism, at times sabotaging the anti Fascist struggle and even attempting to collaborate with others. The fundamental aim of the Zionists was not to save Jewish lives but to create a Jewish state in Palestine. A month after the Nazi pogrom against Germany's Jews, famously known as Kristallnacht, Ben Gurion, Israel's first head of State, declared outright to the "Labor" Zionists on December 7th 1938 an interesting mathematical formula for saving German Jewish kids, after the British government proposed that thousands of Jewish children be brought to Great Britain from the continent:
"If I knew it was possible to save all the children in Germany by taking them to England, and only half of the children by taking them to Eretz Israel, I would choose the second solution. For we must take into account not only the lives of these children but also the history of the people of Israel." Source: Yvon Gelbner, "Zionist policy and the fate of European Jewry", in Yad Vashem studies (Jerusalem, vol. XII, p. 199).
Ben Gurion also added:
"The saving of the Jews in Europe did not figure at the head of the list of priorities of the ruling class. It was the foundation of the State which was primordial in their eyes. " Source: Tom Segev. "Le septième million" Ed. Liana Levi, Paris, 1993, p.539 "
(...) Must we help all those who need it without taking into account the characteristics of each one? Must we not give this action a national Zionist character and attempt to give priority to the saving of those who can be useful to the Land of Israel and to Judaism? I understand that posing the question in this manner may appear cruel, but we must establish unequivocally that if we are able to save 10,000 people out of the 50,000 who can contribute to the construction of the land and national rebirth, or a million Jews who will become a burden or, at best, a dead weight, we must limit ourselves to saving 10,000 people who can be saved-despite the accusations and the appeals of the million left behind. Source: Memorandum of the "Salvation Committee" of the Jewish Agency. 1943. Quoted by Tom Segev. Op. cit. p.124.
In 1943, while the Jews of Europe were being slaughtered, the US Congress finally got around to proposing a rescue commission. Rabbi Stephen Wise, one of American Zionism’s most important spokesmen, "came to Washington to testify against the rescue bill because it did not mention Palestine." (Brenner, Zionism in the Age of the Dictators p. 242) The romantic chauvinism of 19th century nationalist ideology came home to roost in the politicking of a liberal reform rabbi. Here, both murderers and the spokesmen for their victims emerged from the same ideological currents.
In 1940, to arouse indignation against the English, who had decided to save the Jews threatened by Hitler by taking them to Mauritius, the Zionist leaders of the "Hagannah" (led by Ben Gurion) did not hesitate to blow up the ship when it called at Haifa on December 25th 1940, causing the death of 252 Jews and English crewmembers. Source: Dr. Herzl Rosenblum, director of "Yediot Aharonoth", revelation made in 1958 and justified in "Jewish Newsletter", N.Y., November 1958.
In 1941, Yitzhak Shamir (later on, 7th prime minister of Israel) committed "an unforgivable crime from the moral point of view: he preached an alliance with Hitler, with Nazi Germany, against Great Britain." While still considering themselves part of the Irgun, the Sternists sent a proposal of alliance to the Nazis.
"The establishment of the historical Jewish state on a national and totalitarian basis, and bound by a treaty with the German Reich," the Stern document read, "offers to actively take part in the war on Germany’s side." It adds that "the NMO [Irgun] is closely related to the totalitarian movements of Europe in its ideology and structure".
Yitzhak Yzernitsky — later to call himself Yitzhak Shamir, the longest serving Prime Minister of Israel except for David Ben Gurion — became the operations commander of the Stern Gang after Avraham Stern was killed by the British army in February of 1942. Under Shamir’s leadership, 14 assassinations were attempted on British officials with two successful ones, of Lord Moyne, the British Minister Resident in the Middle East, sitting in Cairo, and the UN Representative to Palestine, Count Folke Bernadotte, who received three bullets in the heart on the order of Stern’s operations commander Yitzhak Shamir.
Menachem Begin, founder of Likud, the sixth Prime Minister of Israel and a leader of the Zionist terrorist group Irgun, honored Stern by putting his portrait on a postage stamp.
The Charter of the Stern Gang, or more accurately, the principles promulgated by Stern, included the establishment of a Jewish state "from the Nile to the Euphrates", the ‘transfer of the Palestinian Arabs to regions outside of the Jewish state, and the building of the Third Temple in Jerusalem. It maintained offices outside of the Middle East – including Warsaw, Paris, London, and New York City, the latter headed by Benzion Netanyahu, the previous Prime Minister’s Benjamin Netanyahu’s father.
It was this fanaticism which inspired, for instance, the attitude of the Zionist delegation at the Evian conference of July 1938, where 31 nations had gathered to discuss the absorption of refugees from Nazi Germany: the Zionist delegation demanded, as the only possible solution, the admission of 200,000 Jews to Palestine. The Jewish state was more important than the lives of Jews. As far as the Zionist leaders were concerned, the worst enemy was "assimilation". In this they resembled the Hitlerians, as do all racists, for whom the fundamental preoccupation is purity of blood. This is why the Hitlerians regarded the Zionists as valid interlocutors who served their designs, insofar as Hitler's ultimate goal was to rid Germany, and later Europe, of all Jews.
The Hitlerian leaders were well-disposed towards the Zionists, whose exclusive aim was to create a state in Palestine, thus favoring their own designs to get rid of the Jews. Alfred Rosenberg, the chief Nazi theoretician, wrote:
"Zionism must be vigorously backed so that a yearly contingent of German Jews shall be transported to Palestine." Source: A. Rosenberg: "Die Spur des juden im Wandel der Zeiten". Munich 1937. p.153.
Reinhardt Heydrich, who was later to become "Protector" of Czechoslovakia, wrote in Das Schwarze Korps, the official organ of the S.S. in 1935, when he was head of S.S. security. In an article entitled "The invisible enemy", he made a distinction between two kinds of Jews:
"We must separate the Jews into two categories, the Zionists and the partisans of assimilation. The Zionists profess a strictly racial concept and, through emigration to Palestine, they help to build their own Jewish State... our good wishes and our official good will go with them." Source: Hohne. "Order of the Death's Head", p.333.
"There is no reason," wrote Bulow-Schwante to the Ministry of the Interior, "to impede by administrative measures the Zionist activity in Germany; for Zionism is not in conflict with the National-Socialist program, whose object is to make the Jews leave Germany progressively." Source: Letter number ZU 83-21. 28/8, April 13, 1935.
In exchange for their official recognition as sole representatives of the Jewish community, the Zionist leaders offered to break the boycott which the world antifascists were trying to organize. Economic collaboration began in 1933: two companies were created: the "Haavara Company" in Tel Aviv and the "Paltreu", in Berlin. The mechanism of the operation was the following: a Jew wanting to emigrate would deposit a minimum of 1,000 pounds sterling at the Wasserman Bank in Berlin or in the Warburg bank in Hamburg. With this sum, Jewish exporters could buy German goods for Palestine, and pay the corresponding amount in Palestinian pounds into the Haavara account at the Anglo-Palestine Bank in Tel Aviv. When the immigrant arrived in Palestine, he received the equivalent of the sum he had deposited in Germany. Several future Israeli prime ministers took part in the "haavara" undertaking, including Ben Gurion, Moshe Sharret (who was then called Moshe Shertok), Golda Meir (who supported it from New York), and Levi Eshkol, who was its representative in Berlin. Source: "Ben Gourion et Shertok, dans Black": L'accord de la "havaara", p.294. Quoted by Tom Segev in "Le septième million", (Ed. Liana Levi. French translation. 1993, p. 30 and 595).
The operation was advantageous for both parties: the Nazis thus succeeded in breaking the blockade (the Zionists managed to sell German merchandise even in Britain); whereas the Zionists were able to operate the "selective" immigration they desired: only millionaires were able to emigrate, their capital providing the funds needed to develop Zionist colonization in Palestine. According to Zionism's goals, it was more important to save Jewish capital from Nazi Germany, which would allow them to expand their enterprise, than it was to save the lives of poor Jews who were unable to work or fight and would have been a burden. This policy of collaboration lasted until 1941, in other words, eight years after Hitler's rise to power. Eichmann liaisoned with Kastner. The Eichmann trial revealed to some extent the mechanism of this connivance, of these "exchanges" between Zionist Jews "useful" to the creation of a Jewish State (wealthy personalities, technicians and youngsters who could serve to reinforce an army, etc.). with a mass of Jews who, being less favored, were left in Hitler's clutches.
Mussolini’s fascist friend Ze'ev Jabotinsky was a Russian Revisionist Zionist leader, established several Zionist organizations in Palestine, including Betar and Irgun. The former currently has a football club that calls itself the most racist club in the world and the later was a Zionist Jewish terrorist organization that committed bombings and massacres against Palestinian civilians. Jabotinsky collaborated with the Italian fascist Benito Mussolini and both supported each others Ideologies.
As a matter of fact, there was an entire Naval Academy in fascist Italy to train Zionist militias. This was the Betar Naval Academy, and it was built and operated with fascist blessings. Many future commanders of the Israeli navy would train here under fascist supervision. The cadets at this academy were supportive of Mussolini’s regime, and supported Italy’s expansionist colonial wars in Africa, most notably the second Italo-Ethiopian war.
The Mussolini-Jabotinsky Connection: The Hidden Roots of Israel Fascist Past
Betar Naval Academy - Wikipedia
What attracted 1930s Zionists to fascism
Arthur Ruppin, when of the founders of the Zionist Brit Shalom Peace Movement, believed that realization of Zionism required "racial purity" of Jews, and was inspired by works of anti-semitic thinkers, including some Nazis.Ruppin personally met Hans F. K. Günther, one of many racist thinkers who greatly influenced Nazism.
Ruppin believed in numerous "Jewish types," performed skull measurements and believed Ashkenazi Jews were made of various racial subclasses, according to nasal structure. He distinguished between "Racial Jews" and "Jewish types", and believed Ashkenazi Jews to be superior to Yemeni Jews. His concepts included dividing Jews into "white, black and yellow" metaracial categories.
Ruppin wrote that Jewish race should be "purified", and he stated that "only the racially pure come to the land." After becoming head of the Palestine Office of the Zionist Executive (later the Jewish Agency for Israel), he argued against immigration of Ethiopian Jews because of their lack of "blood connection" and that Yemenite Jews should be limited to menial labor. Due to the Holocaust, historiography in Israel played down or ignored altogether this aspect of Ruppin's life.
Sources:
-Tom Segev, The Makings of History / Revisiting Arthur Ruppin
Steven E. Aschheim, Beyond the Border: The German-Jewish Legacy Abroad (2007) 2018 p.125, n.19.
-Colonial Lives of Property: Law, Land, and Racial Regimes of Ownership
-Israel’s Uncomfortable History of Racist Engineering Seth J. Frantzman April 21, 2014)
The president of the committee, Ytzhak Gruenbaum, declared on January 18, 1943:
"Zionism comes before everything else.." "They're going to say I'm an anti-Semite," Gruenbaum answered, "that I don't want to save the Exile, that I don't have a warm Yiddish heart (...) Let them say what they want. I won't demand the sum of 300,000 or 100,000 pounds sterling to help European Judaism. And I think that whoever demands such things accomplishes an anti-Zionist action. " Source: Gruenbaum: "Jours de destruction", p. 68.
This was also Ben Gurion‘s point of view:
"The Zionist's task is not to save the" rest "of Israel which finds itself in Europe, but to save the land of Israel for the Jewish people." (Quoted by Tom Segev. op. cit., p. 158.). "The leaders of the Jewish Agency agreed on the fact that the minority which could be saved had to be chosen according to the needs of the Zionist project in Palestine." Source: Idem p.125.
The Zionist ideology is still in keeping with the founding doctrine of Theodore Herzl, who constantly harped on the theme in his "Diaries". As early as 1895, he declared to a German interlocutor (Speidel): "I understand anti-Semitism. We Jews have remained, even if it is not our fault, foreign bodies in different nations. " Source: ("Diaries", p. 9) A few pages further, he is even more explicit:
"Anti-Semites will become our surest friends, anti-Semitic countries our allies."Source: ("Diaries", p.19)
Further readings:
1-The Zionist-Nazi Collaboration by William James Martin The Zionist-Nazi Collaboration | Dissident Voice
2-The last of the semites by Joseph Massad The last of the Semites
3-Zionism , antisemitism and colonialism by Joseph Massad Zionism, anti-Semitism and colonialism





 you can check the url/Why-is-the-Israeli-state-now-behaving-like-nazis/answer/Handala-2