Attempts to erase the indigenous population is a staple of virtually all settler colonial contexts. This erasure can be physical such as through genocide or ethnic cleansing, or through ethnocide which aims to destroy their culture and remove them from public memory. This erasure aims to justify the colonization of land, and delegitimize any claims by the indigenous population who might object to it. Palestine is no exception to this.
The claim that there is no such thing as a Palestinian identity, or that it was invented in 1967 -solely as a means to destroy Israel- is quite popular among Israelis and Zionists. What strikes me as humorous is not that these claims are made, on the contrary, every settler population tries to erase indigenous ties to the land. No, what I find funny is that in typical colonist fashion they cannot conceive of an indigenous history that does not in some way center them, it is as if all Palestinian history is just a reaction to Zionist aspirations.
Was there Palestine and Palestinians before 1948?
So how exactly did Palestinian identity develop?
First of all, it is important to situate this discussion in its proper context. Nationalism has become so greatly ingrained in our conception of society that it is sometimes difficult to imagine that this is a relatively modern phenomenon. People think of states as so natural and static that it can be challenging to see them as imagined and invented communities.
As a matter of fact, in the case of France, for example, concentrated measures were taken to force the French peasantry to start identifying with the emergent French nation state. This necessitated great indoctrination, suppression of many local cultures and left behind many casualties. Some have even described it as a process of colonization of rural France by the urban centers.
It is important to understand that all nationalisms are at some point made up. In this sense, all nationalisms are “fake”, they are not a natural occurrence. They are fluid, fragile and ever-changing. Take for example national identities such as “Italian” or “German”. These national identities are very recent, barely coming into existence at the end of the 1800s. Yet, nobody claims that Germans or Italians are a “fake” people, despite their national identity not existing 200 years ago. Throughout history, peoples have often changed how they identified politically. The Sardinians eventually became Italians, Prussians became Germans. It is understood that the people who would later become German did not appear from a distant land to take over the territory that is today Germany, but are the same people who inhabited it and called it home, even if under different names at different times.
The ideologically driven impulse to imagine our ancestors as some closed-off, well-defined, unchanging homogeneous group having exclusive ownership over a territory that somehow corresponds to modern day borders has no basis in history. Unfortunately, this is the basis of many reactionary ethno-nationalist ideologies.
It is also worth recognizing that the vast majority of nation states in the global south did not exist 100 years ago. None of this implies that the people who inhabit them today are foreign transplants, as is frequently alleged against Palestinian identity and nationalism.
Palestinian identity:
The roots of contemporary Palestinian identity have been outlined in many works, but I believe that Rashid Khalidi’s wonderful book, Palestinian Identity, has one of the more exhaustive and detailed explorations of the subject. According to Khalidi, Palestinian national identity can be traced back to Ottoman times, but it arguably started crystallizing in its modern form during the WW1 period. It is important to keep in mind that nationalism as a whole first touched the region around that period. While the mandatory period did see a rise of Palestinians identifying with the idea of a greater Arab nation, this did not preclude regional Palestinian identity and sense of belonging. It is not a contradiction to identify both as an Arab and a Palestinian, as was the case for many.
There are multiple elements that coalesced to create this proto-Palestinian identity, first of which was the significant religious attachment to Palestine as a holy land by the people living there. Of course, Palestine has been an important religious nexus throughout history, but this feeling of attachment was particularly strong among those living there. Another element is the distribution of Ottoman administrative boundaries and the special status afforded to Palestine. According to Khalidi:
“from 1874 onwards, the sanjaq of Jerusalem, including the districts of Jerusalem, Bethlehem, Hebron, Beersheeba, Gaza, and Jaffa, was a separate unit administered independently from any other Ottoman province.“
Previously, Jerusalem was the capital of the larger province (Vilayet) of Palestine (Filastin) which includes the vast majority of what is now considered Palestine.
A third element is the fierce local loyalties and attachments, especially in the larger cities. Khalidi dubbed this “Urban Patriotism”. Nabulsis, Gazans, Jerusalemites, etc. all took pride in their cities and their local histories. Evidence of this can be seen in Palestinian family names, such as “Al-Nabulsi” (of Nablus) or “Al-Khalili” (of Hebron) and many other cities, towns and villages. With modernization and the spread of transport, communication, education, and notions of nationalism throughout the region, this local attachment evolved to include areas outside of the direct city or town and came to resemble what we understand today as nationalism more closely.
It is important to emphasize that all of this preceded any encounter with Zionism. This is important to understand, because there is a common assertion that Palestinian identity grew as a consequence of Zionist colonialism of Palestine, even though no such claim is made for the neighboring countries which all developed identities and nationalisms of their own. It is worth noting, however, that for Palestinians, the Zionists were yet another imperial or colonial force in a history full of such forces, be it the British, or any other.
However, this does not mean that Palestinian identity was not influenced at all by its encounters with European or Zionist colonialism. For example, Najib ‘Azuri, and in response to Zionist goals in Palestine, wrote in 1908 that the progress of “the land of Palestine” depends on expanding and raising the status of Jerusalem.
Evidence of early Palestinian identification and attachment to the land is abundant. One need not look only at some of the larger indicators, such as the founding of the Filastin (Palestine) newspaper in Jaffa in 1911, but also at the smaller ones, such as a group of Palestinian immigrants to Chile founding a football club and naming it Deportivo Palestino in 1920. That’s pretty impressive for an identity that allegedly did not exist!
This talking point becomes even more egregious when you consider how hard Israel has worked to co-opt and appropriate Palestinian identity and cultural markers, such as the Kuffiyeh, Dabkeh and even Palestinian cuisine. It simultaneously seeks to sever the ties of the indigenous people to the land while stealing indigenous identity markers in an attempt to self-indigenize its settler population. Ultimately, all these claims aim to whitewash the crimes committed against Palestinians by implying that they shouldn’t have been there in the first place, that they do not belong, and that the settlers are more worthy of the land.
Are Falafel, Hummus, Knafeh, Za'atar, Musakhan, Shawarma, Shakshouka, Maqluba, Jerusalem Ka’ak, and Mansaf Israeli?


Palestinian child selling Palestine newspaper in Haifa,1921.

Palestinian brothers,1898.

Palestinian child from Jerusalem/Palestine,1898.

Sheikh Ibrahim Ansari from Jerusalem/Palestine,1920

Palestinian girl of Bethlehem in costume, Holy Land, between 1890 and 1900.
Small collection of Palestinian photos before the ethnic cleansing by Zionist gangs:

But even if you swallow this premise wholly, and come to internalize it. What then? Does the national identification (or lack thereof) of the Palestinians mean that they were legitimate targets for ethnic cleansing? Even if we accept the ridiculous and false premise that the Palestinians were “just Arabs” without a distinct national identity, how does this justify the destruction of hundreds of villages and the subjugation of millions?
It doesn’t, and it can’t.
From the onset, this talking point is not only racist, but highly ineffectual if followed to its logical conclusion. Palestinians exist, and would have existed regardless of Zionism or any other colonial power. No amount of revisionist and ideological twisting of history can erase that.
Further reading:

Khalidi, Rashid. Palestinian identity: The construction of modern national consciousness. Columbia University Press, 2010.
Khalidi, Rashid, ed. The origins of Arab nationalism. Columbia University Press, 1991.
Kamel, Lorenzo. Imperial perceptions of Palestine: British influence and power in late Ottoman times. Bloomsbury Publishing, 2015.
Muslih, Muhammad. “Arab politics and the rise of Palestinian nationalism.” Journal of Palestine Studies 16.4 (1987): 77-94.
Anderson, Benedict. Imagined communities: Reflections on the origin and spread of nationalism. Verso books, 2006.
Hobsbawm, Eric, and Terence Ranger, eds. The invention of tradition. Cambridge University Press, 2012.
Weber, Eugen. Peasants into Frenchmen: the modernization of rural France, 1870-1914. Stanford University Press, 1976.





 you can check the url/Why-do-some-people-claim-that-Palestinian-identity-is-fake/answer/Handala-2