Many distortions in the answers here are based on fiction, jokes, and information devoid from reality and facts. Human lives are a joke to some people here. The many answers justifying the murder of toddlers based on the premise ”Israel has a right to defend itself“ here are shameful.

I prefer reality than fiction and jokes. Here is the breakdown of what happened:
1- Zionists marched saying Death to Arabs.
'Death to Arabs': Palestinians Need International Protection From Israel's Racist Jewish Thugs
2- A Palestinian child was murdered a couple of days ago in Nablus before Hamas launched a single rocket.

Palestinian teen killed during Israeli raid on West Bank village
3- Palestinian Christians were forbidden from praying on holy Saturday during Easter in Jerusalem and then were attacked by Zionists.
Israeli police attack Christians commemorating Holy Saturday in occupied Jerusalem
4- Palestinian Muslims were forbidden from praying in Ramadan and then harassed at their holy sites in Jerusalem.
Al-Aqsa under attack: How Israel turned holy site into a battleground

5- Palestinians as usual face ethnic cleansing in sheikh Jarrah from their homes and properties in Jerusalem.

Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood in Jerusalem: The full story
6- Hamas warns Israel and informs it to stop its crimes against Palestinians.

Hamas condemns Israeli attacks on Christian worshippers in Jerusalem.
Israel of course ignores and keeps attacking Palestinian Muslims and Christians.
7- Hamas responds.
8- Israel murders many innocent Palestinian children and civilians, then blames it on Hamas.


9- Israel as usual starts crying.
Israel started this.
If you want to go back further, and look at the root origins of this mess, it is rooted in the Zionist movement, and its goal of colonizing Palestine to establish a Zionist settler ethno-state with a Jewish majority there. The establishment of Israel through the ethnic cleansing of approximately 1 million Palestinian native, countless massacres against them, and the erasure of their society in the Nakba of 1948, the original sin of Israel’s genesis.





 you can check the urlhttps://palestinetoday.quora.com/Why-did-Israel-launch-the-deadly-air-strikes-on-Gaza-after-the-Hamas-rocket-fire-on-Jerusalem-5